THE CONFESSION AND EXECUTION Of the Seven Prisoners that suffered at TYBURN On Wednesday the6th of March 1677/8.

At which time were Executed

William Johnson , Francis Rashfield , als Williams Another , George Doggot Hugh Mills , {A Boy, Tho. Horistaffe Blanch Oakley , als Bourchier and Joan Griffin .

WITH

An Account of their Behaviour in Prison after Condemnation, and their Discourses to some Friends and Ministers that Visited them.

The Confession and Execution of the Prisoners at Tyburn,March 6 1677/8.

THere were in all eleven persons (seven men and four women) that received Sentence of Death at the last Sessions; who were most of them old Offenders, and such as before had lain under that terrible Condemnation, or at least been burnt in the hand or transported for their wicked Practises: But no Mercy can Reclaim, no Warning Reform some obstinate and incorrigible sinners.

One of these, call'd William Johnson , had the benefit of his Clergy about five years since, and has several times been in Newgate ; but the Fact he now suffer'd for, was thus: On Sunday the 17th of February, in Prayer-time in the afternoon, he and another, not yet to be sound, knockt at a Goldsmiths house in Cheapside , where there was no body

at home but a young Gentlewoman; and pretending some fair Errand from her Father, perswaded her to unlock the door, and the Chain being unhappily down, they immediately rusht in upon her, gagg'd and secur'd her whilst they rifled the house, and stole away Plate of a very great value, as much 'tis, supposed as they could well carry off. Though it were positively sworn by the aforesaid maid that he was one of them, yet both at his Tryal and when he received Sentence, he very stoutly denied it, and much pleaded his innocence; yet afterwards when he saw there was no hopes but he must suffer, he acknowledged it: but could not be brought to discover the other person that was with him, nor where the Plate was, though great endeavours were used by the Ordinary and some others to perswade him thereunto.

Francis Rashfield , otherwise call'd Williams , was condemned for Felony and Burglary, breaking in the night time into theof a Merchant in St, Ellens, and stealing rich Clothes and other Goods, to a very great value. Being a person of ill same, and formerly burnt in the hand, he was taken with one Motly, lately executed, upon suspition; and the Gentlewoman that had been robb'd coming to speak with him to endeavour some discovery, she observ'd a Cravat about his neck made of the Lace of one of her Aprons, which she knew very well, as being made with her own hands, He pretended the Cravat was given to him, and brought in a slut, that was a Prisoner in Newgate, to own she gave it him, and that it was made in the same Jail. But after Sentence, he confess'd he was concern'd in that Robbery, and many others with the said Motly, and behaved himself very penitently.

George Doggot

There was one that had been many years a Companion and assister of naughty persons. At his Sentence it was declared, That he had received and melted down both the Plate of Chicester Cathedral and that of New Colledge in Oxford , and been concern'd in several other notorious Pranks; though that he was condemned for, was about a Watch pickt out of a Gentlemans pocked in St. Sepulchres Church so impiously daring are such wicked men, that they presume to practise their Villanies even in the House of God, and make the Sacred Pemple a Den of Thieves. The Watch was taken upon him, and he could give no account how he came by it. He seem'd not much affected with His sad condition, but rather slatter'd himself with hopes of getting off; but then must not think

always to baffle or clude the stroke of Justice: His fatal moment was come, and with much appearance of Repentance for his past Ill life, he this day went to suffer with the rest.

pro ye. Clayton colant

Hugh Mill 's died for stealing of Cloath. He had been not long since transported, but was come back before the time limitted, and was now sound guilty of a fresh Felony. He express'd more Remorse and Penitence in his Behaviour than any of the rest, and confess'd very freely what a wicked Liver he had been; desiring all young men to take warning by him, and avoid Idleness, Gaming, and Ill Company, which first brought him to these destructive Courses.

Tho. Horistafe

A young Lad suffered for stealing some soul Linnen. He had (notwithstanding all the Correction and Admonition of his Friends to the contrary) been guilty of Thievery, and once Condemned to die before, and yet not above Sixteen years of age. He begg'd hard for Transportation, and promised Amendment; but having received Mercie before, he was now left to the severity of the Law as an Incorrigible Offender.

als Bourchier

Of the Women there was Blanch Oakley , who robb'd her Master, a Jeweller, of several Pretious Stones, a Carter belonging to the Noble Order of St. George, and other things of value: and was, It seems, one of these, whereof this town has too many, who under pretence of getting Service , do onely seek opportunities to rob those they pretend to serve.

peck clock ex bo by Lymon to carry away a propuded of a Crane

The other was Joan Griffin , one that had long made Thieving her Trade, and not long ago received the Kings Pardon; but immediately fell to her old practise of stealing, having now robb'd a person of a good parcel of Clothes, for which she suffered.

The rest of the persons Condemned obtained his Majesties gracious Reprieve; and we with they may make good use of their time which is allowed them by his mercie, and abandon all their vile Associates to betake themselves to honest Employments, that they may never again come under the like lamentable Circumstances.

Between the time of Condemnation and Execution, Mr. Ordinary took abundance of Christian pains both by Preaching, Praying and private Exhortations, to make them all sensible of their Condition; and we hope with that effect, that their poor Souls may now be blessing the God of Mercie in Happiness, for those precious opportunities. It being observed that most of them, all the time after Sentence, behaved themselves much more civilly, and with a better frame of Spirit, than others before them

have been in the like Condition. And so in their passage in the Cares to Tyburn , the Tears in their Eyes and peniten cullas they caused a general Pity, so gave good grounds to hope well of their endeavours to make their Peace with Go for all the Evils of their Lives.

An the Place of Execution there was not any of them said much onely pegging the Peoples he Justice of their Sentence, and desiring all to take warning by them: Only one insisted more particularly upon his sin of Sabbath-breaking; acknowledging it as a most Just Judgment, that as he never made any ConsistenceReligious Duties on that day, so it was on that day he committed the Fact which thought him to this shameful and untimely

