THE Last Dying Speech OF EDGERTON BRETT , Gent. Who was Executed at TYBURN , On Monday the 28th of September, 1691. for the Murther of William Benbridge , Shoe-maker , in Gray's-Inn-Lane .

Mr. Brett, being Condemned the last Sessions for the said Murther, was Ordered to be Executed with the 8 Persons who Dyed on Friday the 18th Instant, but by vertue of the Queens most Gracious Clemency, he obtained a Reprieve for Ten Days longer; which being expired, he was conveyed in a Coach to the Place of Execution, where being come, he spake as followeth.

NOW that I draw near the point to Dye, I shall speak to Men as I mnst shortly answer at the Judgment-Seat of God. I have lived and I now dye in the Communion of the Church of England, which I pray God to preserve and cause to flourish to you and your Posterity, so long as the Sun and Moon endure.

But before I leave this sinful World, I do, with Self abhorrency and deep Humiliation, confess before God, Angels and Men, That the sins and follies of my Youth have been many and great, and my Trespasses have mounted up to Heaven and pulled down this Just Vengeance on my Guilty Head; yet as I have faithfully endeavour'd to act a severe Repentance, so I am fully perswaded, through the Satisfaction and Intercession of our Blessed Saviour Jesus Christ, to obtain God's Gracious Pardon. And now I pray that all Men would be warned by my sad Example, to shun all Excess, Riot and all the Youthful Lusts which have betrayed me into this Bloody Sin for which I justly Dye: And, lastly, I recommend my Soul into the Hands of my only Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, hoping for a Joyful Resurrection after Death to Life Eternal, even so come Lord Jesus.

HIS PRAYER.

O, Lord my God and most merciful Father, I beseech thee Pardon those many and horrid Sins I have committed against thy Divine Majesty, especially this Bloody Sin for which I Dye; Grant that my Saviour's Blood, being sprinkled on my Soul, may make Atonement for the Blood spilt, and that my Soul may not utterly be abhor'd and forsaken by thee, but that it may, in some degree, receive Eternal Life, to the Glory of thy Holy Name, and for Jesus Christ's sake, into whose Hands I commend my Spirit: O Lord receive my Soul into thy Heavenly Kingdom. Amen.

This is a True Copy of the Paper delivered to me with his own Hand, desiring it to be made Publick.

Samuel Smith , Ordinary.

LONDON, Printed for Langely Curtiss, at Sir Edmundbury Godfrey's Head near Fleet-Bridge . 1691.

