A True Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Dying SPEECHES, of the Criminals that were Executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday the 18th of Sep. 1695.

THE Sessions at the Old-Baily held Seven days. There were sixteen received the Sentence of Death, most of them for Clipping the Currant Mony of this Kingdom. Thirteen Women formerly Condemned for Clipping, but their Sentence being respited, as pleading there being quick with Child, they were this Session called down to their former Judgment, and received the Sentence of Death. The Ordinary and other Ministers of this City Visited them every day. The Ordinary preacht several Sermons to them. On the Thanksgiving day in the Forenoon he preacht upon this Text, viz. the 37 Verse of the 20 Chapter of Ezekiel, I will cause you to pass under the Rod, and I will bring you into the bond of my covenant: And I will purge out from among you the Rebels. These words, are Gods gracious promise to the Penitent Remnant, whom he brought back from the Captivity in Babylon, and Settled them in Jerusalem: Thus he Separated from Rebellious Hypocrits, a peculiar Remnant, whom he appropriated to himself; as worshipers of him in Sincerity. This Text Alludes to that of the 27th. of Leviticus and the 32 Verse. It was the Custom of Shepherds to lay their Rod on each of their Sheep, as they pass'd out of the Fold, for the more exact Counting them one by one, that none of them might be Lost. So Christ the Faithful Shepherd of Souls puts his elect Flock under the Rod of his Discipline and Government, that they may be kept persevering in the ways of Holyness to Eternal Life. Christs Sheep are markt and sealed by his Confirming Spirit, as being in the bond of an Everlasting Covenant of Free-Grace in him. But the Lord will Purge out of his Church such Hypocrits, who Rebel against the Scepter of his Righteousness.

His Fan is in his hand, which is his Discriminating, Omniscient, Omnipotent, Vindictive Justice, by which He will thoroughly Purge his Floore, wherein Hypocrits as chaffy Pretenders to his pure Religion lye mixt. Therefore let all such who subject not themselves to the power of Godliness, but are indifferent whether Christ or Antichrist prevail, be awakened from pleasing themselves in meer formal Flourishes in Christian Religion; otherwise being Protestants at large, they will be in danger to be seduced, by receiving the Mark of the Romish Beast in their Right hand as secret Friends to the Papacy, tho' not Seal'd in their Foreheads as openly profest Papists. How will this strike deep deadly Stings into the Consciences of such, who tho' they were Specious Professors of Christ's pure Religion, yet they never past under the Rod of his strict sacred Discipline, so as to submit to the Laws of Christ's Sanctifying Spirit.

Next was demonstrated the misery of all Unregenerate persons who never yet entred themselves into the Sacred Bond of Gods Covenant in Christ.

2. How such who are Aliens from Gods Covenant, may be brought into the sacred Bond thereof.

3. What are the Inhappying priviledges and benefits of this Covenant.

4. What are the Duties incumbent on all such, who are desirous to be advanced into a federal Union and Communion with God through Christ. Here were laid down, in what essential properties, True Faith and Repentance, differ from presumptuous hopes of Heavenly felicity, with an exhortation to get and exercise those saving graces without delay, as Indispensably Requisite to make men Happy.

The Conclusion of the Sermon was thus directed to the Condemned.

You have heard, that it is Gods design by his desolating Judgments to purge out rebellious Sinners from among his peculiar people; yet tho' he brings his Judgments to light every Session, and hath made others Examples of his just severity: You have not been cleansed from your Impieties, 3 Zeph. 5. You have rather with Impudence and more Confirmed Obstinacy, Rebelled against the Lord. But know for Certain, that if Gods Judgments on others, be not a Fanning Wind to cleanse and separate you from your Wickedness; they shall be the Whirlwind of his Wrath, to speed you to a more aggravated and Irrecoverable Destruction. Therefore persist not in Rebelling against Christs Seepter of Mercy stretcht out to you, in the Counsel of Righteousness and Reconciliation to the Incensed Deity; otherwise you will judge your selves Unworthy of Eternal Life. Consider that the Lord might justly have made you a Mittimus to Hell, when he hath only sent you hither, as to an house of Correction. Let not the Disciplinary Rods of God be spent in vain upon you, that the more you are smitten the more you should resolve to Rebel. Then Gods milder Corrections of you, intended for your Reformation, will be turned into the devouring Stings of Scorpions. Rather submit to the Lord's severest methods for your amendment; beg of him to Sanctify your distresses, that they may be the means of your sincere Conversion. This cannot be till the Pride of your Hearts, in a forward persuit of sinning, and the froward perverseness of your Wills in Rebelling against Gods sacred Laws, be subdued by the Sanctifying Spirit of Christ. Then you may lay hold on the strength of Gods Covenanted Mercy in Christ, that he may be Reconciled to you and Intail his Favors upon you; this cannot be till you Subscribe to all the Obligatory Duties of true Repentance in the thorough change of your Hearts.

Let those sincere Penitentiaries, who were restored from the Babylonish Captivity, become the patterns of your Conversion to God in Christ. Consult the 50 Chapter of Jer. the 4, and 5th. verses. And the 24th. of Jer. the 7th. verse. The 14th. of Ezekiel the 22 and 23d. verse. Those Converts did not only set their Faces toward the God of Zion and his pure Worship in a meer formal profession of it, but they had a sincere resolution joyned with a studious Endeavour to fulfil all the Duties of Gods Covenant, in which they had bound themselves by a Solemn Renovation thereof.

As they had grieved the Holy Spirit of God by their Multiplied sins, so they mourned as Doves of the Valleys, pouring forth penitential Tears from the Spring of their Contrite Hearts.

They sought the Lord with fervent humble Supplications, not only that he would be Reconciled, but also to change the Corrupt disposition of their Nature; they were Resolved to pass under the Rod of Christ's Holy discipline, for the subduing the Pride of their Hearts in former rebelling against his Sacred Laws, yea to Loath themselves as vile for all their Provocations, after the Lord was pacified toward them, and Seal'd their pardon. Consider, whether you do truly imitate these eminent Patterns of Conversion unto God.

Rather you have willingly yeilded your selves Captives to Satans Yoke. Why should not Christs Government, which is very Honorable and most Equitable, be Complacential to you, that so you may be Instated in all the priviledges of Gods federal Love? Resolve immediatly to break off your Confederacy with sinners, which you have possibly confirmed with an Oath of secrecy, thereby presuming to Escape the stroke of Justice, while you have robbed on the Mountains of prey. Gladly submit to the Scepter of Christ's Righteousness; subscribe all the Articles of his Covenant, for the confirming of your allegiance and obedience to his Sacred Laws; so shall you not fall a prey to Satans wrath, but become the purchase of Christs Redeeming Grace. Let the Son of God become the Shepherd of your Souls, to Guide you in the paths of Holyness to Eternal life. Suffer his Rod of correction to drive out the sinful folly of your wandrings from the Fold of Righteousness: Then his Staff of Covenanted Mercy shall support you under the sentence of death pronounced against you: It is not too late to return to the Lord; be sincere in your Sorrowing for sin; humble and fervent in your Supplications for Divine Mercy, so will Christ the great Shepherd of Souls lead you to the calm Waters of Divine Consolation in your dying Extremities; he will turn this Cup of trembling into a Cup of Salvation; he will conduct you through this Dark Valley into Gods Celestial Kingdom, wherein are Divine Pleasures overflowing, to satisfie and delight the Souls of true Converts, through all the Ages of Eternity.

I Proceed to give an Account of the Behaviour and Confessions of the Condemned.

I. Duke Cooke , condemned for High Treason in Clipping the Currant Money of this Nation. Aged about 30 Years. He was a working Gold-smith , and said that he might have lived Comfortably on that Employment. He had Good Education from his Parents, but did not follow their Advice. He had many notable Expressions drawn from the Sacred Scriptures; which affected his Heart; so that he wept for his sins; saying, that they were now a Heavy Burthen on his Conscience; chiefly because he had offended a Gracious God, and did not improve the motions of his Holy Spirit, to have turned soon to thee Lord: yet now he Solemnly profest that the sins which he most Loved, were most Abhorred by him. He Confest, that Gods Restoring Grace had kept him Chast and free from Acts of Uncleanness; yet he had not the sense of God's renewing grace in changing the Corrupt disposition of his Heart; for sometimes he did Drink to Excess, and walkt abroad on the Sabbath, when he ought to have observed and Porformed the Worship of God in Private after the publick Ordinances ceas'd. Upon my whole Observance of him, I do hope that he was a true Penitent.

II. Tho. Pastmore , Condemned for High Treason, in forging and Counterfeiting several peices of Money, also for Clipping several hundred Pounds in Silver. He was a Cane-Chair-Maker : But said, that having no Employment he became poor, and so joyned himself to bad Company. He did not deny his Crime. He said that now he Repents that he did not keep the Sabbath but was very apt in mispending It. For which God left him justly to himself in committing other sins; namely Drinking to intemperance. I asked him, what saving Faith and Repentance was?

He gave only some general account; so I assisted him in describing the Essential properties of Both; upon which, he said that he Hoped his Heart was truly Contrite, because sin was his Burden; but yet he Despaired not that Christ would be his Merciful Redeemer.

III. John Edwards , Condemned for Coyning false Money. He is Aged 28, Years. He was Born in Staffordshire , and lived with his Father, working on Iron at a Forge . After 21 Years of Age he Left his Father, and went into our present Kings ervice in Ireland ; wherein he said that he was Wounded: But since that, he ledan an Idle Life; and fell into bad Company, and was guilty of Swearing and Drunkenness; He said, that before he Married he Carnally knew some bad Women.

IV. Will. Pennard , Condemned for Felony and Burglary, Aged 23 or 24 years. He was by Trade a Plasterer . That he was not Addicted to Leud Womens Company, but Mens; Since which he kept not the Lord's Day, but fell into Evil conversation; that he did often Swear; that he often resolved to Amend his Life, but broke his Vows to God. He said, that it grieved, him that he never received the Sacrament of the Lords Supper; because it would have Obliged him to have reformed his Life; and he could not leave his sinful courses; and thought that the Unworthy receiving the Sacrament would more Wound his Consciene. I told him, that his abstaining from the Sacrament, upon such a sinful account, did aggravate his sins; for the due receiving of that Ordinance would have obliged him to have amended his Life.

V. Robert Royston , Condemned for clipping; He confest that he had been Guilty of this Crime formerly, but not at this time. He said that the had been a great sinner; that he frequently broke the Sabbath, and delighted in leud Company; that he was Guilty of Swearing and Drunkenness. That before he married, he committed the sin of Uncleanness; he seemed penitent.

VI. Tho. Barnes , Condemned for High Treason in Coyning and counterfeiting Money. He said, that his imployment was to make Hilts for Swords . That he left off his Trade, and growing Poor, having many in his Familiy, he was Tempted to Clipping; that he never was Unchast. yet he spent the Sabbath Idly, and did Drink in Excess. He wept, and said, If he might be spared, he would never offend more in breaking the Laws of the Nation.

VII. Samuel Hyard , alias Herne ; Condemned for stealing a Bay Gelding. He is 18 years of Age. He was Born Sevenm. from Exceter . That he followed Husbandry for a time; he said that he was Tempted to steal the Horse; and that he grew loose in his Life after his Acquaintance with Him who Tempted him, who is not yet apprehended. That he was disobedient his Parents, and warns all Persons against this sin, and thinks that his Untimly End was brought upon him for this sin.

VIII. John Carter , Condemned for picking a Pocket. He had been an old offender: Aged 16 years. He was Born near London : He said, that he was Disobedient to his Parents. That he went at Eight or Nine years of Age, to the Indies , and serv'd under the Captain of a Ship ; but falling sick he was sent over into England : And that since he was accquainted with bad Company he broke the Sabbath, did Swear, and was sometimes Drunk.

IX. Will. Burton , Condemned for Robbing on the High Way, the Wife of Thomas Chamlen : also for Assaulting the Honourable Charles Knowles near Turnham-Green ; after he was shot in the Head, he endeavoured to escape, but could not. He is of the Roman perswasion, and absented himself from the Chapel.

X. Peter Lawman and Franis Buckley , both Condemned fot Felony; that they being above the Age of 14 wandred up and down the Country calling themselves Egyptians. I endeavoured to make them sensible of their wicked Lives and how great a sin it is to pretend to tell people their Fortunes; but they were not affected with their sinful Courses.

There were four Women Condemned this Session for Clipping, namly Rosamond Pastmore , Jane Juxon , Sarah Burrows , Sarah Demsdal ; they are respited, being found Quick with Child. Rosamond Pastmore said, that she had been a great sinner yet was resolved not to particularize wherein. She wept and said that sin was heavy on her Conscience: But the other Three are secure for Six Months, as Persons in their case usually are, and cared not to give any account of their Evil Life, nor much minded any Instruction given to the rest.

There were 13 Women Clippers, whose Executions were respited, because of their being with Child, who were now call'd to their former Judgment, and Adjudged to Die; some of them declined giving me any of account themselves; those who did are these Mary Pyne , Alias Waltean , her Husband was hanged lately for Clipping. She said, that he drew her into it; she said, that she was an apprentice to a Silk-Throwster , but left her Service being Idle and Ungovernable. She had been addicted to Leud Company, and kept not the Sabbath. She Relented much the sins of her Life.

II. Jane Pattison , alias Pattishal , her Husband was also hanged for Clipping; and she said, he Inticed her into it. She was brought up to handle her Needle, that she could Imbroider . She denied not that she had led an Idle Life and much neglected the Duties of the Lord's day.

III. Jane Hancock , Condemned for Clipping. Her imployment was to make Mantuas . She said that she had been a great sinner, and that in her Passion she did often Swear and Curse.

IV. Elizabeth Hartley Condemned for Clipping. She said, that her Husband had been a Soldier under the late King James; but was very Extravagant in his Life: so she adventured to clip that she might Supply him in Expences; she did not work hard at her Needle , but Joyned to bad Company, and prophan'd the Sabbath, Saying that she took pleasure therein; but now she wisht that her Repentance might be in a Degree answerable to her sins.

The Ordinary Visited the Condemned every Day. Also Mr. Williams, and Mr. Crook took pains in Instructing them, and Praying with them. And I hope their assistance prevailed on them to be more sensible of their sins, and prepare for their Death.

On Wednesday the 18th. of September William Pennard , William Burton , and John Carter were conveyed to Tyburn in a Cart, and being all tied up they behav'd themselves very decently, and William Pennard spake to this purpose. Good People I was Born of good Parents and did think once I should never have come to this untimly end, Be careful to keep good Company; for evil Company will delude you to Wickedness, but be sure that you do keep the Sabbath, and keep it strictly and do not in any wise neglect it; for if I had strictly observed it I had been in a better Station. Then he prayed, and said, Oh! Dear Jesus look down upon me, I come to thee for Salvation hearken to my Prayer, for I have truly Repented; Oh Lord how shall I appear at thy Judgment seat; thou hast called to me, but I could take no warning; I have been the worst of sinners; Oh Lord I have not regarded thy Mercies, but have lurked after my one Soul, and sought my one blood; good Lord deliver me at this present time, and do not hide thy Mercies from me, though I have not deserved them at thy hands; Oh that I was to live my days again, I would apply them wholy to thy self. Then John Carter said, Good People I am but a young Man, and have keep ill Company, and have neglected my Duty to my Parents; pray let all young People take warning by me, and be ever dutiful to their Parents; if I had taken their advice, it would never have brought me to this place. Good Lord forgive me all my past sins, and have Mercy upon my Soul. William Burton , said that he died a Roman Catholick , and was very penitent according to his manner; and said that he hoped he had truly repented of his Sins, from the Bottom of his Heart, and behaved himself very penitently. The Ordinary pray'd very fervently with them, for a considerable time, and then the Cart drew away, they were turn'd off.

This is all the Account I can give of this Sessions.

Sam. Smith , Ordinary .

Dated Septem. 18.

ADVERTISMENTS,

LOst the 28th of August 1695. a Gold-Seal-Ring with a Cornelion Stone, whereon is Engraven a Man sitting on a Tree. If it be either Sold or Pawned, who ever gives notice of it (so as it may be had again) to Mr Edward Page , Surgeon on Ludgate-Hill , they shall have their Money again, and 20 Shillings for their Reward.

SYnopsis Medicinae: or, a Compendium of the Theory and Practice of Physick. In Seven Books. Containing, I. the Elements or Principles of the Art. II. the Cure of Infants Disseases. III. the Cure of Diseases of the Head. IV. the Cure of Diseases of the Brest. V. the Cure of Diseases of the Belly. VI. the Cure of Diseases Universal. VII. the Cure of all Sorts of Fevers: Shewing the Names, Signs, Causes, Differences, Prognosticks, and various Intentions of Curing all kinds of Diseases from Head to Foot, happening to Humane Bodies. Galenically and Chimically Performed. The like never Published before in any Language whatsoever. The third Edition. Wherein, besides the Addition of nearly the whole First Book, there are several Hundreds of other Additions, Alterations and Amendments, throughout the whole Work. By William Salmon , Professor of Physick . London, Printed by and for J Dawks, in Great Carter-Lane, and are to be Sold by most Booksellers. 1695.

A Description of the City of Namur and Situation of the Castle, With the Fortifications made by the French, 1695. Together with an Impartial account of the Siege from the first investing the Place, begun the First of July new stile, till the fourth of August, the day of the Capitulation of the City: as also the Surrendering of the Castle, on the second of September, N. S. and are to be Sold by J. Whitlock near Stationers-Hall, 1695.

London, Printed for E. Mallet, at Sir Edmunbury Godfrey's Head, near Fleet-Bridge, 1695.

