THE BEHAVIOUR OF THE Condemned Criminals IN NEWGATE, Who were Executed On Friday the 19th of this Instant December. VIZ; Captain James Watts , and Captain Peter Barnewel , for Robbing on the Highway, Daniel D’ Coiner , for Coining of Guineys, Jane Voss , a Notorious Theife, and Richard Jones , for Murdering of Elizabeth Fairbanck , in PICKADILLY .

Together with their Dying Words Before their Execution at TYBURN.

The Ordinary thinks to Publish this Advertisment, that by the desire of the Condemned Prisoners in Newgate, who properly come under his Charge, and of whose Behaviours, and Dying. Conferences with him, a true Account can only be given from him, to prevent misrepresented storys, he is (tho to his great trouble) induced, to render a true Account how they stand affected under the Sentence of Death, and what grounds they have to hope for a future happy Eternity upon a Penttential acknowledgment of their Crimes which he thinks, may be a useful service to forewarn others, not to fall into the same Crimes least they draw the snare of an Ignominious Death upon themselves.

Whereas at the late Sessions of Gaol-Delivery, held in the Old-Bayly, the 10th 11th 12th and 13th of this Instant December: Amongst 18 other Malefactors that received sentence of Death for several Crimes, whereof they were found Guilty; it was ordered that James Watts Peter Barnewel , Richard Jones , Daniel D'Coiner , and Jane Voss , should this Day. suffer Death at Tyburn: As to each of which in Particular, you may please to recieve the following Relation: And

I. As to James Watts and Peter Barnewel they were Indicted together with one Brian O Cane , For stealing a Horse, on the 14th. of October, from Richard Winlow , who was Robb'd by them of the aforesaid Horse, and Several other things, near Stoaking-Church , as he was returning from Ailsbury, Fair : Which came to be Discovered by the finding of a Saddle, that was taken with the Horse, and left at a private House upon the Road, with directions to send it to the Bell-Inn in the Strand : Whereupon, Mr. Winlow took the Saddle and sent it to the

place Directed, desiring the Tapster to Apprehend such Person as should come for it, which in same short time afterward was called by Brian O Cane , who declared he came from his Master John Watts , and being accordingly staid, gave Directions to find his Master, who was taken with the said peter Barnwell at Chelsey , and the Horse found at the Bear-Inn in Westminster , which was owned by Watts, and several of the Goods were found about Barnwell: Upon which the Evidence being plain against them, they were found Guilty

The Ordinary repaired to the Chamber of the said Watts and Barnwell Daily, for that they alledged they could not with so much Conveniency in preparation for Death appear in Publick with the other Criminals: Yet it proved more Effectual to them than to the Rest to appeared more Publickly, not. by reason so much of that Privacy, as because they had a better Temper of Mind, therefore the more fitted to receive the Impression of Divine Truth: For they had both of them better Education, and consequently were not so Ignorant in the Principles of Religion.

The said Persons stiled themselves Captains, having been Officers in War in Forreign Parts; when they were acquainted by the Ordinary that they were in the Warrant for Death, they received the Report not so much with a Romantick Courage, as with a true Christian Fortitude: And this he was the rather induced to hope because they did not seem to Repine that his Majesty’s sparing Mercy was extended unto others who stood under the like sentence of Condemnation with themselves. The Ordinary endeavoured to Convince them of the Greatness of their Crimes, in Robbing on the Highway, and thereby Distressing, and perhaps Ruining of others to supply their Extravagant and Soul Destroying Lusts.

Upon this, they replied that they never made Robbery a Custom, nor were they guilty of the Blood of any Man, their Natural Temper being far otherwise inclined; in as much that they utterly abhorred such Barbarity. They were very attentive to good Counsel, and much affected with several Prayers formed suitable to their Condition, several times Weeping, especially Captain Watts in the sense of lus Sins: Which the Ordinary observing, he commended him therein, in that it became him so to do: In as much as David tho a Man of War from his Youth, yet greatly Humbled himself before the Lord, wasting his Beard with his Tears: He said tho he were but 26 Years of Age, yet he was not very fond of his Natural Life, because he said if he Lived longer, greatly feared he should Offend God, in returning to his former vain Courses, contrary to his present Resolution, and thereby Increase his Account to God above.

II. Richard Jones , Who was Indicted for the Murder of Elizabeth Fairbanck Widdow ; in a Cellar she lived in at Pickadilly . The Evidence against him was that he the said Criminal, together with John Wise , who was Executed the last Sessions for the said Murder, and Confessed the same at the Gibbet, and one Charles Tooly , who since Died in Paris , did enter in April last on a Sunday in the Evening, about Nine of the Clock at Night in the Widdows Cellar, and there Barbarously Murdered her, by Breaking her Neck, and Grievously Bruising her in several parts of the Body; taking with them in Money and Goods, to the value of 60 l. several of which Goods was proved upon the Criminal, so that he had nothing to offer in his own Defence but was found Guilty.

After his Sentence the Ordinary having several times Exhorted 'him to a true and serious Repentance for the great and horrid Crime of Murder which he was plainly found Guilty of, not only by the proofs against him, but the Dying Words of Wife one of his Confederates therein, he strove to extenuate the same, as that he was tempted thereunto by Tooly, with whom he sled for the same into France, and where he was proselyted to the Romish Religion . Upon his return from whence he was quickly Apprehended, by the meanes of a Person whom he had formerly Robb'd of several Perruques, and for which he had been burnt in the Hand, same few Sessions since; the said Person coming into a Coffee House in Bishopgate-street near unto Bedlam where the said Jones was Drinking who espying the said Party made off as fast as be could but being persued was taken between Moregate and Crippelgate. So loud is the Cry of Bloud, that it seldom or never goes unpunished in this World. He did not express any great signs of Penitence but seemed rather in a dull and hardned Temper of Heart in which he continued to his Death.

III. Jane Voss , commonly known by the Name of Jenny Voss , a Notorious Criminal upon a former Sentence some 5 or 6

Months past pronounced against, her was now ordered to Dye. She had been formerly Condemned for that Notorious and Presumptuous Crime in Stealing the Lord Chancellours Mace, about 8 years since together with Sadler, who suffered for the same: But she was then saved by Transportation, as upon her late sentence by pleading her Pregnancy. She was Transported together with one Renneger a Gold-smith one of the accomplices in the said Fact who was over Familiar with her, and indeed she had brought not only him but several others into Felonies Uncleanness, and other Crimes which they too late repented of After the time limited for her Transportation was expired, she returned into England, where she followed her old Trade of Deceit and Robbery, and was said to be Marryed to one John Smith , alias Ashburnham the High way man that hangs now in Chaines at Stanford-Hill , at whose Death he particularly desired of the Ordinary, that he would advise her to bethink her selfe of her condition in that he was very certain she would follow him, some time or other to that fatal Place where he breathed his last. Which Dying request of the Prisoner the Ordinary hath very often since performed, and observed that some short time after, the usually resorted to Chappel and seemed to be very attentive, yet afterwards grew remiss tell now she was summoned by the Warrant for her Execution, according to her late Sentence, since when the Ordinary hath endeavored to make her sensible of the State of Sin she lay under, she was first very Stubborn and Contumacious yet by degrees the nearer she approached her last fatal Hour she began and particularly on Tuesday and Wednesday to Weep and Lament her habituated profaneness seeming willing to be directed in her preparations for Death tho she would not by any means be brought to any express and particular account of her very sinful Life; somtimes pretending that she had taken care the same should be otherwise Published, or to such effect; so that he can but slenderly report of the signs of any true: Repentance in her, tho he hopes the Best, that before her last Exit she will truly consider her wretched Condition.

IV. Daniel D’Coiner , who was Indicted for Clipping our English Coin, as also Coining of several Guineys, half Guineys, Mill'd Crowns, and half Crowns, which he usually exposed at an under Value: The Evidence against him being very plain that he had been guilty of the Fact: and also divers Instrument proper for his Business, found at his House, and the Mettal from which he wrought the same, which was produced. He had nothing to offer for himself why Sentence should not pass against him, but that he had been a Discoverer of others: To which the Court returned that he had been the first that drew them in, and taught them their Trade, and so ought not to plead the same in his Favour; and thereupon was Sentenced according to Law.

The account which the Prisoner gave of his Conversation was, that almost 20 Years since, a Gentleman who was Tutor to a Person of Quality encouraged him in erecting a School about Turnham-Green , wherein he Taught the French Language, and gained a considerable Livelyhood thereby: Notwithstanding which, he sell into bad Company, and thereby into great mispence of Money, so that his School failing, him, he betook himself at last to the Art of Guilding. by which he could earn 5 s. a Day; and came to that Proficiency therein, that he acknowledged he could sublimate Inseriour Mettal into the Resemblance of the Noblest, yet said, he never abused this Art to the Imbasement of his Majesties Coin, or the Counterfeiting any Guineys as he was Accused of. To which the Ordinary replied he could give no Credit to this Denial, for that the Crime was sufficiently proved against him, and his own Confession besides to corroborate the Truth thereof; and thereupon acquainted him with the greatness of his Crime; how greatly the same was detrimental to all Trade in general, and more particularly made HighTreason by the Laws at England: To which he said he discovered several Transgressors of this Nature, and thereupon hoped for Mercy; Tho he ackowledged he had in many things acted against the Checks of Conscience and inward Convictions; in as much as Evil had been present with him, to beset and hinder him from performing that Good which the Spirit of God Excited him unto; And so gradualy became addicted to many Vices, but hoped that through his Repentenee thereof he should be Sayed by Faith in Christ; Merits. The Ordinary, hereupon advised him to look narrowly to his own Heart; for that the same was Deceitful above all things, and therefore it was his chiefest Course to beg of God that his Infallible Spirit would guide him in the trying the

Truth of his hoped for Repentance, and the Evidences of his Immortal Welfare.

The foregoing Account being taken by the Ordinary, from the Prisoners aforesaid, I proceed to give an Account that on Friday the 19th. of this Instant December, the said Ja. Wattes Peter Barnwell , Richard Jones , Jane Voss , and Daniel D’Coiner , Were all about the hours of 10 or 11 in the Morning carried to Tyburn , where when they approached it was not Observable that any of their Countenances much Changed, but that each of them seemed very Resolute in their Death; and first as to James Watts and Peter Barnwell , they severally did express to the Ordinary, that they had been great Sinners and for the Crime they came then to Suffer, they had nothing to offer in their excuse, Confessing that God in Justice had overtaken them, and withal desired of those that were Spectators of their Dismal End, that tho they came thither in course of Curiosity only to view how in the last efforts of Life they behaved themselves, they would by what they saw take warning to avoid those Crimes which justly brought them thereunto: And Particularly Confessed they had not only in their Youth disobeyed the Councils of such as had a Parental and Majesterial Authority over them, but when they arrived to Years of Discretion the Laws of God and the Land were utterly neglected by them; insomuch that no sort of Crime offered it self but they greedily swallowed he same: Delighting more to satisfy their Sinful and unjust Appetites and prevailing Lusts, than what Vertue or Morallity prescribed unto them, thinking it no Crime to Rob another so they might serve the Cravings of their own Necessities, which they were only guilty of bringing themselves into. Begging of God Almighty a forgiveness for their Manifold Crimes which had justly brought this his severe Sentence upon them, which tho it was no more then absolutely just, yet they hoped that through the Marits of Christ Jesus their intercessor and a true Repentance they should find acceptance of the God of Mercy. In which Words or to the like effect, they quietly Submitted to their Sentence.

As to Richard Jones he spake but little as the place of Execution, more then confessing himself guilty of what he came to suffer for, begging of all Persons to take warming by him of those Course that lead unto the Fatal End he was now brought unto: Alledging that he was by Temptation of ill Company, and particularly by the breach of the Sabbath, and a covetous desire to satisfy the Craveing Necessities of his Lusts, induced into the Horried Crime of Murther, which tho he ever abhorred, yet could he not then refrain the same: Exhorting all persons not to give way to the beginnings of Sin, which by degrees, like the Serpent in the Fable having once entred it’s head, conveyes it’s whole body into the place. with many the like Admonitions to refrain from all Sin in general, which will first or last bring ruine to those that follow the same.

As to Jane Voss , when the came to Dye, notwithstanding all her former Confidence and impudent Carriage during the whole course of her Life, she could not choose but Weep bitterly for her Sins, calling to mind the greatness and Aggravation thereof, warning all Persons from giving way to the Temptations of Satan, or allowing in themselves the least Footsteps of Sin, which by degrees increases it self upon them. She Confessed that she had been a Notorious Sinnrs, and justly deserved this Fate, in that she not only had been a Criminal her self, but by her Counsel as well as Example had drawn other into grievous Crimes, end hastned the same end upon them she came now to Suffer, Bewailing her past Transgressions, and expressing a great Repentance therefore.

The last Person which was Daniel D’Coiner the Frenchman, was drawn on a sledge from Newgate. a little time before the other Malefactors; and seemed to be extreamly penitent for all his Sins. desiring all good People to avoid those Snares that attend them in evill and loose Company; whereby they are drawn from their employments. and so become liable to the Temptations of Sathan, who alwayes watches his advantage over such as misspend their precious hours in Sin and Vanity. This being the sum of the sevaral Criminals dying words, the Ordinary having Prayed servently with them and a Pslam sung, the Law was Executed on all the Five Offenders.

Dated the 19th. day of December,1684. Samuel Smith , Ordinary .

London , Printed by George Croom , over against Baynard's Castle in Thames-Street . 1684.

