THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS Who were Executed at TYBURN, ON MONDAY the 24th of DECEMBER, 1744.

BEING THE First EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honourable Henry Marshal, Esq;

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

Number I. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLIV.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Hon. HENRY MARSHAL , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Right Hon. Lord Chief Justice WILES, the Hon. Mr. Justice ABNEY, the Hon. Sir SIMON URLIN , Knt. Recorder of the City of London , and others his Majesty's Justices for the City of London, and County of Middlesex, and Justices for the City of London and Jail-delivery of Newgate, at Justice-hall, in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday the 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th and 10th of this Instant December, 1744.

Twenty Men, viz. John Hill , John Potbury , David Shadow , James Ruggles , Sulpice Duclot , Samuel Goodman , Benjamin David Woolfe , William Billingsley , otherwise Gugg , William Brister , otherwise Dillsey , James Roberts , Henry Gadd , otherwise Scampey , Theophilus Watson , Robert Carter , Patrick Bourck , otherwise John Bourks , George Ellis , James Leekey , William Robinson , William Norwill , otherwise Long Will, Joseph Field , otherwise Nobby , and Thomas Wells , and one Woman, viz. Hannah Moses , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and sentenced to die.

WHILE under Sentence, they had constant and suitable Exhortations given them in respect to their several unhappy Cases, and in the stated Course of my Ministrations, were earnestly invited to accept of the purchased Salvation of the Son of God, from an Improvement of those Words of the Prophet, Ho! every one that thirsteth, come ye to the Waters, and he that hath no Money, come ye buy and eat, yea, come buy Wine and Milk without Money and without Price. Isaiah lv. I. From hence, occasion was taken to set forth the Fulness and Freeness of that Salvation we have by Christ, and Encouragement given to all of applying to Christ for the Waters of Eternal Life. They seemed in some Measure affected, whilst I thus opened and illustrated this Passage of Scripture, and I hope were enabled to make a particular Application of it to themselves.

ON Wednesday the 19th of December, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Twenty-one Malefactors under Sentence, lying in the Cells of Newgate, when David Saddow and James Ruggles , two Soldiers in the first Regiment of Guards, for a Robbery in St. James's-Park , behind Buckingbam-House , and Robert Carter , for robbing Mr. Welldy of 4 Shillings and some Half-pence, received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for Transportation for fourteen Years.

The remaining Eighteen, viz. John Hill , John Potbury , Sulpice Duclot , Samuel Goodman , Benjamin David Woolfe , Hannah Moses , otherwise Samuel , William Billingsley , otherwise Gugg , William Brister , otherwise Dillsey , James Roberts , Henry Gadd , otherwise Scampey , Theophilus Watson , Patrick Bourk , otherwise John Bourks , George Ellis , James Leekey , William Robinson , William Norwill , otherwise Long Will, Joseph Field , and Thomas Wells , were appointed for Execution.

William Billingsley , otherwise Gugg , was indicted for a Street-Robbery.

1. William Billingsley , otherwise Gugg , 21 Years of Age, born of honest Parents, in the Parish of St. Sepulchre's , where his Father now lives, and by Trade a Shoe-maker, who put him to the Free-School of the said Parish, to learn him to read, write, and cast Accompts for Business, and instructed him in Christianity. When of Age, he was not put to any Trade, but undertook to be a Lamp-Lighter , which Employment he follow'd about Newgate-Street , and other Places without the Gate. He at last became a common Thief and Robber, and guilty of all Vices common to vile Reprobates. Since a Child at School, he has been quite negligent of all Religion, never went to Church, and kept the worst of Company both of Men and Women, who led him in all their mischievous and wicked Ways. He behaved quietly and always came to Chapel, and when there was very attentive to the Prayers and Exhortations. There is a Custom among them to give foolish, insignificant Nick Names to one another, Billingsley's By-Name was Gugg.

HE was convicted for a Robbery in Devonshire-Square , with Field, Gadd the Boy, and four or five more. Nine of them were convicted this Sessions upon the Evidence of Harper, and all of them were of the Black-Boy-Alley Gang, of which Society the Three Women executed in November last were Members also.

HE made Confession, that he believed in Christ, professed Repentance for his Sins, and acknowledged that he was in Peace with all Men.

2. Thomas Wells , indicted for the same Street-Robbery with the abovesaid Billingsley, was about Twenty-Three Years of Age, born of honest Parents in St. Sepulchre's Parish . His Father got him into the Charity-School belonging to the said Parish, together with his unlucky Companion Billingsley, and there he learned to Read, Write, and Cast Accompts, and was carefully instructed in the Principles of our most Holy Christian Religion.

WHEN he was able to get his Bread, he took to the Business of being one of the Lamp-Lighters in the same Precincts with Billingsley. He associated with, and joined himself to a Company of the most wicked and abandoned Wretches about Town, who hurried him apace to utter Destruction, he not having either Prudence or Resolution to resist their ensnaring Sollicitations. He was altogether corrupt in his Morals, and in Disposition utterly averse to whatever was good or commendable.

HE past for the Husband of Ann Barefoot , who was executed in November last with Ann Duck , and assumed his Name, although they were never married. He owned he had committed many Robberies, which may be seen

in the Appendix to this Account. While his pretended Wife was under Sentence, in the the Time of Prayers and Sermon she commonly went to Wells, within the Chequer-Work by the Pulpit, and Wells said to her, That he wish'd her a good Journey, for he should not be long before he followed her. This was on the very Morning of her Execution. In their Discourse together they were sometimes very noisy, for which I was obliged often to reprove them, and then they were silent.

Wells had been a very wicked, profligate Youth; much addicted to vile Women, and Drinking, Swearing, Gaming, and every other destructive Vice. He seemed to be a young Fellow of tollerable Parts, and might have been capable of good Business, but was wholly void of the Grace and Fear of God, and this hastened him to the fatal Tree, the common and deserved End of such abandoned Wretches.

HE constantly came to Chapel, behaved there decently and quietly, and it is to be hop'd was a Penitent.

James Leekey , and William Robinson , were indicted for several Felonies and Robberies, particularly for a Burglary in breaking the dwelling House of Mr. Francis Wellard , and stealing from thence a large Quantity of Linnen.

3. James Leekey , 24 Years of Age, his Father was a Justice of the Peace's Clerk, in Rope-maker's-Alley, Moorfields, now in the Parish of St. Luke, Middlesex, but formerly of St. Giles's Cripplegate , in which Parish he was born. He was educated at School to read, write, and cast Accompts, and instructed in the Christian Faith, according to the Principles of the Anna-Baptists, of which Profession his Father and Mother both were, and because he was no Christian, he earnestly desired to be initiated into the Holy Church by Baptism, which accordingly I administred to him, he declaring his Faith in God and Christ, and having a competent Knowledge of Religion, he was earnestly desirous to die in the Communion of our most Holy Catholick Church. He was by Trade a Jeweller , but an idle, profligate Fellow, knowing not what it was to lead a sober Life, and to apply himself to any thing that was good, but chose to keep the worst of Company, both Women and Men, who never give good Advice, but hasten their Followers to the Chambers of Death. He was a notorious Thief and Robber, coveting all he cast his Eyes upon, and unwilling to work or do any Thing that's good or Praise-worthy. He owned himself a vile Thief and House-breaker; he was convicted for a Burglary committed in Moorfields, which he did not deny, and for which he suffer'd. He was a very irregular, wicked young Man; he came always to Chapel, and apparently devout and serious in Prayers, and attentive to Instructions. He died in the Faith of Christ, and in Charity with all Men.

William Robinson , was indicted for the same Crimes with James Leekey .

4. William Robinson , about 26 Years of Age, of mean Parents in Town, who could not give him much Education; he had almost forgot his reading, but that was what he least minded. He was a very profligate Youth, never thinking upon Religion, nor going to Church, where the Knowledge of God may be had, but he liv'd as a practical Atheist. He seemed to be a vile, harden'd Wretch, refusing to make Confession, and leaving me in a hurry, seeming to despise the Fear of God, and bore no regard to Men; yet he came to own the Burglary and Thefts for which he suffered, and before he died profess'd penitence, which in Charity we may judge he had.

William Brister , otherwise Dillsey , was indicted for two Street-Robberies, one in Smithfield

, and another in Wood-street , upon the Evidence of William Harper .

5. William Brister , otherwise Dillsey , which was the Nick-Name his Gang assign'd him, was Twenty-four Years of Age, born in Deptford of honest poor Parents, who put him to School to Read, Write, and Cast Accompts, and had him carefully instructed in Religious Principles. When he was of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Waterman , and served his Time out honestly. After which he lived handsomely by his Business, but having Occasion to come often to Town, he at length contracted an Acquaintance with some notorious Street-Robbers and Women of the Town, who soon seduced him into the like wicked Way which they were accustomed to.

HE confessed the two Robberies he was indicted for, and owned besides that he had committed many more Offences of the like Nature.

HE was a very vicious young Man, much addicted to Drinking, and other Debaucheries, negligent of all Religion, so that he never of late went to Church, and had almost quite forgot what little good Education his Parents had bestowed upon him. He was very poor and naked, and a miserable Object to look upon. He behaved quietly, came constantly to Chapel, and seemed more serious than many in those Circumstances. He was also one of the Black-Boy-Alley Crew, and therefore no Objection can be made against the Justice of his Sentence. He was very attentive to the Word of God and Prayers, and it is to be hoped died penitent of all his Sins.

Samuel Goodman was indicted for assaulting, putting in Fear of Life, and robbing Mrs. Mary Footman , on the Highway, of her Pocket, a Gold Ring, and several other Things of Value.

6. * Samuel Goodman , 31 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Town, who gave him an indifferent Education at School to fit him for Business, and had him instructed in the Principles of Religion, which he very much neglected. He was of no particular Trade, for being of a loose indolent Disposition, he would not engage himself to any constant Employment. He was unhappily acquainted with divers Gangs of Thieves and Street-Robbers, and equally industrious with the vilest of them in prosecuting their wicked and desperate Practices.

HE was one of the first that was convicted and carried into the Cells in the Beginning of the Sessions, which continuing five or six Days, they had little Opportunity of serving him in the regular Way as usual, and this gave him a violent Cold, which fell into his Legs and Feet, of which Indisposition he never recovered. He reflected on the Evidence as not strictly just in their Information, but no Credit can be given to Assertions of this Nature, as being the common Method with such unhappy Wretches of extenuating their own Offences.

He never came to Chapel but twice or thrice when first convicted, but died penitent for all his Sins.

Henry Gadd , otherwise Scampey , was indicted for picking a Gentleman's Pocket near St. Lawrence, Guildhall .

7. Henry Gadd , about 14 Years of Age, of honest, mean, Parents, in Hedge-Lane , had no Education, and was grosly ignorant of Religion; was a wicked perverse Boy, and quite a Stranger to that that was good: He was bred to no Trade, but acquainted and con * The said Goodman was an Evidence against John Sutton , who was Executed at Tyburn on Wednesday the 4th of June, 1735.

cerned with all the Gangs of Street-Robbers, for three Years past, and being of so diminutive a Stature, they had particular Offices to impose upon him, which none but those of so small a Size would do. He was of a very surly Temper, not willing to confess his Sins, but in a Manner denying every Thing, tho' it was well known he was acquainted with most of the Thieves about Town, and equally wicked with the most profligate of them. He was so ignorant in point of Religion, that he understood nothing of it, though bred in a Christian Country. He was ask'd, Who made him? and he could not tell. I inform'd him, that the great God created him, and all the World. A second Question was, Who redeem'd him? he hesitated a while, and at last he said, The D - l; astonish'd and grieved at such an improper and wicked Answer, I sharply reprimanded him, but I fear to little Purpose, for he was the most obstinate inconsiderate little Villain that I ever saw, since I have had the Honour to serve the City. He was instructed according to the Brevity of Time, and I heartily pitied, and recommended him to the infinite Mercy of God, as a very obdurate Sinner, upon whom we can hardly give any Opinion.

Thomas Wells , John Field , and William Norwell , otherwise Long Will, were indicted for robbing a Man in Bishopsgate-street , with the aforesaid Scampey, and two or three more, for a Robbery in Devonshire-Square ; upon which they were all found guilty. These were all of the Black-Boy-Alley Gang; so that by this Time, a great Part of that pestiferous Crew, will, I hope be quite Demolish'd.

8. Joseph Field , 22 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Hertfordshire ; was educated at School, to read, write, and cast Accounts, and instructed in Christian Principles: He was put Apprentice to a Carpenter near Hicks's-Hall , and near out of his Time, but a most disobedient young Man, unmindful of his Master's Business; but always eager in following after Gangs of Thieves and Street Robbers, and lewd Women, who hurried him apace to his disgraceful End. He confessed the Robbery in Devonshire-Square, that they were barbarous and rude to the Prosecutor; and that he was very wicked, and wholly addicted to bad Company. He behaved well, and sung Psalms, was more civil than many such unfortunate Persons, pretending he was not so wicked as the rest, but advised them for God's Sake not to knock down and Murder People in the Streets. He had his Education from the Minister of the Parish where he was born; and said, his Parents are People of Credit at Hitchen , in Hertfordshire , where he was born, his Father being a Farmer there. He died Penitent, and in Peace with all Men.

9. William Norwell was indicted and convicted with the above Person. He said he was 30 Years of Age, born in Devonshire of honest Parents, who gave him an Education at School to Read, Write, and Cast Accompts, as might qualify him for Business, and had him instructed in the Christian Faith. When of Age he served his Time to a Brick-maker in the Country, and some years after made a Journey to London , where too many such come, as often prove a common Nusance to it.

WHILST he continued in his own Country, he lived very well by his Business, as he did some little Time after his first coming to Town; but not being contented with the Condition he was in, he attempted a Way of Life that prov'd his Ruin. Tho' he wanted for nothing while he continued to Regard his Business, yet at last he wholly neglected it, and corresponded with the vilest of Company, which drew after it the worst of Calamities.

He was concerned with the Black-Boy-Alley Crew, and in most of the Robberies and Villanies they committed. He confessed the Truth of the Indictment he was arraigned upon, and owned that he had been a Street-Robber for these seven Years past. He said he deservedly suffered, and acknowledged that it was by keeping wicked Company he was plunged into his present dreadful Misfortunes.

IN the Country he behaved well, but when he came to Town his Behaviour here was the reverse. The Nick-Name he was commonly distinguished by was Long-Will, because he was a little Taller than most of his Companions, and Field, his Companion, used to be called Nobby. He believed in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Sulspice du Clot , a French Valet, was indicted for robbing his Master, the Honourable Mr. Masham, of a Diamond Buckle, a Fifty Pound Note, and several other Things of Value, the Property of his Master, the Hon. Mr. Masham.

10. Sulspice du Clot , 26 Years of Age, of honest respected Parents in France , not far from the City of Paris . He was put out to School, and had a very genteel Education bestowed upon him, in order to fit him for Business. His Parents had him carefully instructed in the Persuasion of the Church of Rome. When of Age, he was not put to any Trade, but served Noblemen and Gentlemen in the Character of a Valet , and, as he alledged, was always honest, and having continued some considerable Time in this Way of Business, he was desirous of improving himself by travelling into Foreign Parts. Accordingly, about a Year ago, he formed an Intention of visiting England , and in Consequence thereof came hither about 9 Months ago, and having been here some Time, he at last happened into the Service of the Honourable Samuel Masham , Esq ; whom he served faithfully for some Time; but then being of a covetous Disposition, and seeing several valuable Things of his Master's, he thought he might them without being discovered. But his Master missing the Things mentioned in the Indictment, and Du Clot absenting himself, he caused an Order to be procured, upon which he was taken with the Goods upon him, and tried and convicted for this Robbery. He said, Gaming was the sole Cause which brought him to this ignominious Death.

HE came frequently to Chapel, but being of the Romish Religion, a Priest of that Perfusion used to visit him. When the Dead-Warrant came down, he seem'd much dejected. He said he believed in Christ, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Patrick Bourke , alias John Burk , and George Ellis , were indicted for killing fifteen Sheep, in the Grounds of John Messenger , near Kensington , and stealing the Fat near the Kidneys.

11. George Ellis , 50 Years of Age, born of honest Parents at Croydon in Surry , who educated him at School to read, write and Accompts, to fit him for Business, and taught him the Christian Faith, according to the Tenets of the Church of England. When of Age he served his Time to a Blacksmith , and lived well by his Business, having a House and a Work-shop at the Seven-Dials . He married a Wife by whom he had several Children, one of whom is now living, and Wife to Patrick Bourk his Fellow-Sufferer and Companion in killing the Sheep.

HE had a Weakness in his Eyes, contracted by cold or hard-working, so that he could neither read nor write; his Wife died about

13 Years ago, and since that George liv'd by himself. Bourke coming to England some Years ago, Ellis married his only Daughter to him, by whom he has several Children now living in a miserable Condition. Ellis said, that his Son-in-law Bourke was a most cruel barbarous Fellow, and that he beat and mortified him in a very strange manner, so that when he was carried before Sir Thomas De Veil , his Eyes were almost closed up, and his Face all over with black and blue Marks, as was a great Part of his Body, by the barbarous Treatment of his Son-in-law, whom he said was a great Villain. He denied his stealing the Sheep, alledging, that Bourk did it without his Consent; yet he could not say, that it was without his Knowledge. He said, his Son-in-law, with others of his Irish Companions, often persuaded him, and in a manner forced him to the Popish Chapel, though he knew nothing of the Matter, and begg'd God and Man Pardon for his Ignorance in any kind of Religion whatsoever. He confess'd, that he had been a very wicked Liver, and died in the Christian Faith.

Patrick Bourk , indicted and convicted upon the same Indictment with the preceeding George Ellis .

12. Patrick Bourk , otherwise John Burk , 30 Years of Age, of honest, poor Parents, in the Kingdom of Ireland , not far from Dublin ; had little Education at School, and could neither read nor write; he followed the Business of a Labourer to Masons and Bricklayers; and at home in Ireland, to Farmers in Country-work, by which means he earn'd his Bread in an honest way, and was troublesome to none. He married George Ellis's Daughter, who has now living a Girl about 11 Months old. Ellis complain'd much of Bourk his Son-in-law, as did Bourk of Ellis. Bourk got a Warrant against Ellis, but they were both taken up for the same Crime, and while under Sentence, they reflected much upon each other, and Bourk acknowledg'd his beating his Father-in-law often, and in a cruel manner. He was of the Romish Communion, and died therein, acknowledging the Justice of his Sentence, according to Law.

Benjamin David Woolfe , and Hannah Moses , otherwise Samuel , were indicted for stealing a Watch.

13. Benjamin David Woolfe , 40 Years of Age, born at Prague , the Metropolitan City of Bohemia, of Jewish Parents, who gave him good Education in their way. When of Age, as his Country-men generally do, he followed merchandizing in Germany , Poland , Holland , and other Places, having travelled over many Countries, according to their Custom, and spoke several Languages, and the Hebrew pretty well. He was concerned with that set of Jewish Thieves and Robbers, some of whom were lately executed. He was very obstinate, and would hear nothing of Christianity, but when any Argument was proposed from their own Bible, proving Christ to be the Messias, he wav'd the Discourse, unwilling and uncapable of giving any Answer, but persisting in Infidelity. When I spoke to him about Religion, he would make no Answer, but was mumbling and speaking upon some Hebrew Prayers and Formalities taken from the Hebrew Bible. After this, he turn'd stupid, sullen and morose, looking as if out of his Senses, having the Fears and Terrors of Death upon him. He died a perverse infidel Jew.

14. Hannah Moses , alias Samuel , Thirty-seven Years of Age, born at Frankfort in Germany , of creditable Jewish Parents, who educated her in their own Principles. She was Wife to Samuel Moses the Jew, who was executed the 17th of February last, for robbing Mr. Young, a Silversmith in Bloomsbury . When Moses was under Sentence, she came

daily to visit him, and was always standing at the Door of the Press-yard as I went in and out, reflecting in general upon her Husband's Prosecutor; but it may be presumed, that both he and she were equally guilty of the Crimes for which they were indicted. She was very obstinate in her Way of Thinking, and regardless of the Instructions that were given. She could not deny the Robbery she was convicted of, but only in general alledged, that the Evidence was not altogether true, as did also her Fellow-Sufferer Benjamin David Woolfe . She has left two miserable Children which she had by Moses, and died a very rigid Jew.

John Hill was indicted for assaulting Mr. Turner on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear of his Life, and robbing him of his Hat and Wig, Oct. 9.

15. John Hill , 23 Years of Age, was born of honest Parents in Town, he had but little Education bestowed upon him, or at least had forgot what had been taught him, for he could neither Read nor Write. He was of no Trade, and being a wicked young Fellow, us'd to loiter about the Streets, stealing and carrying off whatever he could lay Hands on. He pretended that he was at first put in Bridewell for some Crime of which he was acquitted by the Justices at Hicks's-Hall, and thereupon discharged out of Bridewell; but as he was coming out of the Door, some Persons who knew him accused him of a Street-Robbery, on which he was committed to Newgate, and afterwards tried and convicted upon it. There was another concerned with him in this Fact, but he made his Escape and was heard of no more. Hill would not own the Robbery as sworn against him, which is very common with these unhappy People. He was a wicked debauched young Fellow, and link'd to an infamous Gang of Thieves and Pick-pockets. He was at first somewhat obstinate and rude in his Behaviour, but upon being sharply reprov'd, he behaved better. He professed his Penitence, and died in the Faith of Christ.

James Roberts was indicted for several Street-Robberies.

16. James Roberts , 30 Years of Age, was born of poor Parents, who with some Difficulty put him to School to learn Reading, &c. and taught him the Christian Religion, of which he was wholly regardless. He was not willing to follow any Business, but loiter'd about the Streets to watch an Opportunity of Picking Pockets, and committing other such Villainies.

HE was concerned in most of those Outrages that have been lately committed in this great Metropolis, and was convicted upon the Evidence of Harper, being one of the Black-Boy-Alley Crew. Harper gave an exact Account of the several Robberies, and what Share of the Plunder was allotted to Roberts, so that there was no Objection but the Infamy of the Evidence; and if such Evidence was not allowed, such Offenders would seldom or never be convicted, since in many Cases there are none acquainted with their Ways but themselves.

HE confessed himself a very vile Sinner, and that he deservedly suffered. He behaved well in Chapel, and died penitently, and in Charity with the World.

Theophilus Watson was indicted for a Robbery on the King's Highway, and taking Money and Goods of Value.

17. Theophilus Watson , 25 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Town, who put him to School to read, &c. When of Age he was put out to Business, which he never regarded, but kept such Company, and followed such Courses, as in the End proved his

Ruin. He was one also of the aforesaid Gang, and acknowledged himself to have been a very wicked young Man, but being of the Romish Persuasion, he was not inclined to confess much to me. He died in Peace, he said, with all Mankind, and in Communion with the Church of Rome.

John Potbury was indicted for the same Felonies and Robberies with Wells, Billingsley, Gadd, and the other Street-Robbers.

18. John Potbury , about 19 Years of Age, of honest Parents. He was put to School, where he learnt to read, write, and cast Accompts, and was instructed in the Articles of the Christian Religion. When of Age he was not put to any Trade, but his Father being a Seaman in the Royal Navy , he went on Board one of his Majesty's Ships of War. He served in three or four Men of War, and sometime in Company with his Father. He was born in Somersetshire , but his Parents liv'd mostly in Town, for the Conveniency of his Father's Business. He had the Misfortune some Time ago, to contract an Acquaintance with the Street-Robbers above-mentioned, and together with them committed many Felonies and Robberies, and that for which he was appointed to suffer Death. He seemed to have a Sense of his Misery, and behaved very well under his unhappy Circumstances. He was sick for some Days, and not able to come out of his Cell, but when he became better, he constantly attended Chapel, and was apparently very devout and serious. He owned himself a very wicked Youth, and that he was led away by wicked Company. He professed his Faith in Christ, and hoped for Salvation thro' Him.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Sunday the Day before they died, all those that were of the Communion of our Church, received the Holy Sacrament, and that in a very devout Manner. On Monday the Day of their Execution, they went up to Chapel betwixt six and seven in the Morning, and was very serious at Prayers, (except John Hill .) After Prayers was over Hill, as he was going out of Chapel, ask'd a Gentleman why he look'd at him, do you know me? No Friend, replied the Gentleman. I suppose, says Hill, you are some Surgeon, and if I had a Knife in my Hand, I would slit you down the Nose; which shews how stupid these unhappy Wretches , to have such Expressions, when he was just going to Execution. When they came down from Chapel, they were again put into their Cells and were call'd out one by one to be halter'd, and were afterwards put into six Carts, viz.

In the first Cart were Patrick Bourk , Theophilus Watson , and Sulpice Du Clot . In the second, Benjamin Woolfe , Hannah Moses , and George Ellis . In the third, Samuel Goodman , James Leekey , and William Robinson . In the fourth, William Billingsley , William Brister , and John Potbury . In the fifth, James Rober's, William Norwell , and Joseph Field . In the 6th, Thomas Wells , John Hill , and Henry Gadd , the little Boy.

When they came to the Place of Execution, James Leekey acknowledg'd, that he with some others, took a Portmanteou from behind the Gloucester Stage-Coach, in , while the Coachman got off the Box to deliver a Message for Mr. Lockman and his Spuse, Passengers in the same Coach, and just arriv'd from Gloucestershire.

There was contain'd in the said Porteau a great deal of valuable Linnen, Mr. Lockman's Wearing Apparel laced with silver and gold and several valuable Manuscripts, almost ready for the Press, which they burnt; but the Cloaths and Linnen they sold the next Day.

The rest had nothing more to add to their former Confessions, Woolfe and Hannah Moses , made a great Noise, but upon being reproved, they were somewhat more silent, and softly said to themselves, God have Mercy upon us. They all went off, crying out, God be merciful to us, and Lord Jesus receive our Spirits.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

The following Account of the Soldiers (although Repriev'd) we hope will be acceptable to our Readers.

THE Account we are now about to give respects a Sett of Malefactors, who not content with the Crime of Robbery, have thought add thereto the most heinous Offence of Sodomy, which brought down Fire from Heaven; and, as if this had not been enough, they made that very monstrous Crime a Handle and Snare to draw Gentlemen in, who were inclined to that unnatural Sin. Every one will acknowledge this was no more than they deserved, and indeed, had it been yet more severe, provided it had made them take Warning, no Mortal living would have pitied them, but on the contrary, would have thereat; but, as there are little Hopes, they who have gone so far, will stop there, we must wish, for our common Safety, and avert the visible impending Judgments of Heaven, that every one of them, of what Rank were brought to condign Punishment: in the mean while, all we can do, is to expose villainous Practices, that in case the of God does not deter them for the the fear of the Gallows, at least may, and bring them to Repentance.

OF this abominable Sett, the better Sort, (if indeed any better can be of such a Crew) have found the way to escape both Shame and Chasment, very probably, by commuting with their Purses for the safety of their Persons; and as for the latter, who were all Soldiers, they escaped what was due to their Deserts, by being concerned with their Superiors; so true this our righteous Age, that Wickedness in high Places is sure to go unpunished. Not to enlarge any farther upon this Head, we shall proceed to lay open to the World, this black Scene of Iniquity, not knowing which most to be astonished at, the Wickedness and Infatuation of the Gentlemen so drawn in, on one side, or the consummate Impudence and Villainy of those Decoy Ducks the Soldiers on the other. Proceed we then, to give the best Account we have been able to obtain, of the several Enormities whereof they have been guilty, and of which they must have received their due Reward, had they not been so effectually skreen'd by their Accomplices of the better Sort. But, though they have hitherto escaped corporal Punishment, at least, in this World, we will do out Endeavour they shall not go wholly Scot-free, but expose both them and their vile Practices to the Public, to deter all others, who are not so thoroughly case-harden'd, from pursuing the like Courses. And this, we hope, will be admitted as a sufficient Reason for giving the following Account of them, though they had Interest enough with those in Power to obtain a Reprieve, which may possibly be followed by a Pardon.

IT is a certain Truth, the longer we go on in evil Ways, the worse we grow; and that, if we begin pilfering with a Penny, we shall undoubtedly end with Pounds, unless the Hempen Neckcloth prevents us; and this is very apparent from the Confession of one of these abandoned Wretches, who gave the following Account of himself, namely, That the first Fact he committed was on the 7th of June, 1743, together with D - l D - , belonging to the same Company. One of them it seems being a Taylor by Trade, was employed to make Waistcoats for the rest, and having just finished one Parcel, got Thomas Meakins (another Soldier) to assist in carrying them home to the House of the before-mentioned D - . Being come thither, poor Meakins, little suspecting any Danger, and being in Liquor, and tired into the Bargain, flung

them down, and laid himself upon them to take a Nap. As he thus lay, buried in Sleep, his Companion observing the String of his Watch hang out, cry'd to D - l D - , It is a fine Opportunity, shall we take his Watch? No, answered D - , he will know he lost it here, and then we shall come into Trouble. D - n him, said the other, he is dead drunk, and will not know any Thing of the Matter. Upon which he called out to Meakins, in a loud Voice, What are you asleep? and receiving no Answer, he took hold of the String, and drew the Watch out of his Pocket, which he afterwards pawned for 20 s. ten whereof he kept himself, and gave the Remainder to D - D - .

WHETHER his Success on this Occasion was an Inducement to him to continue the Practice, we cannot say, but we find him afterwards going on in the same wicked Course, without any Scruple or Remorse, and this with the heinous Aggravation of making the detestable Sin of Sodomy a Handle for the Accomplishment of his profligate Designs. Accordingly the next Robbery wherein he appears to have been concerned, was in Company with James Ruggles , J – S - , and T – C - , at the Beginning of last April, about the Hour of Ten at Night.

THESE four Brethren in Iniquity, as well as Brothers in Calling, (being all Soldiers) were then sauntring about the Park, in quest of somebody fit for their abandon'd Purpose, when C - fixed his Eye upon a Gentleman whom he judg'd, and, as it prov'd, rightly, to be inclined to that horrid and unnatural Vice. Upon this, he went up to him, and accosted him in a Dialect, it is to be supposed, peculiar to that Sett of Monsters, which, it seems was so agreeable to the Gentleman, that not considering the Hazard he ran in this World, by putting his Life in the Power of such a Miscreant, nor yet the Enormity of the Crime he was about to perpetrate, he soon agreed to withdraw with him to the Side of Buckingham Wall, in the Green Park, as a Place proper for their abominable Practices, little suspecting the Snare that was laid for him.

IN effect, not long after the Gentleman and his new Acquaintance had arrived at the Spot designed for the perpetration of their Villainy, Ruggles and S - , with the third Soldier, who had observed all their Motions, and followed them at a Distance, made up to them, just as they seem'd to be so busily engaged, that there was no Room to deny their Wickedness, and sternly demanded, What they were about, and what Business they had there. The Gentleman, who it may easily be imagined, was greatly confounded at the Danger wherein he had involv'd himself, by being surpriz'd in such a Fact, could think of no better Excuse, than that the young Man, meaning C - , had brought him thither; as if that would have been in his Power, had not he been himself so detestably inclined: Be that as it will, C - , who acted his Part to the Life, retorted the Charge upon the Gentleman, and accused him of seducing him thither, adding, he believed it was with Intent to him. Hereupon, the three Soldiers began to abuse the Gentleman excessively, d - ing him, and calling him a hundred Mollying Rascals, and swearing he ought to have his Brains dashed out, with abundance of more scurrilous Language to the same Purpose, which they likewise accompanied with great Rudeness and ill Usage.

THE Gentleman finding he was got into bad Hands, desired them to be civil, and not treat him ill, and he would give them all the Money he had about him, as he accordingly did, but it amounted only to Five-pence Half-penny. It will easily be believed, so small a Sum was far from satisfying these abandoned Villains, whose sole Design was to make a Property of him. They told him therefore, he should not come off so, for unless he produced more, they would carry him directly to the Guard-room, and give an Account of his vile Actions; accordingly, they proceeded

forthwith to search him, without any farther Ceremony, but found he had indeed produced his all, for he had no more. On searching him, however, narrowly, they found a Gold Repeating Watch, upon which they laid Hands, D - ning his Blood, and telling him, they supposed he designed to have kept that from them, but they should make Bold with it; ading, he might be glad he escaped so easily, for he deserved to have his Brains dash'd out against the Wall. In Effect, the Gentleman finding all Resistance would be in vain, was forced to submit with a little struggling, and suffer them to go off with their Prey, which they did accordingly.

BUT tho' they had easily got such a Booty, they were not much the better for it, for sometime not knowing what to do therewith, and not daring to offer it to pawn or Sale, for fear of being stopt, wherefore it was agreed, that one of them should keep it in his Custody, till it could be some Way disposed of. He rejoyced therefore greatly, when some Days after, he found it was advertised, with a Reward of Twenty Guineas, and no Questions to be asked, upon carrying it to a Watch-Maker's in Fleet-street. Accordingly, not knowing better what to do with it, he sent his Wife therewith, whilst he staid himself behind at a little Distance.

IT seems in struggling to get the Watch from the Gentleman, one of the Seals was broken off, which the Soldier before-mentioned intended to have kept to himself, imagining the Reward would have been paid without it; but when the Woman carried the Watch to Mr. * * *, he told her, he knew that to be the Watch, and could swear to it, for he had made it, and he set it a Repeating immediately; but he added, there was a Seal wanting, for which the Gentleman had a great Value, and he durst not pay the whole Reward unless that was produced likewise, but would give her Ten Guineas, if that would satisfy her. The Woman answered, there was all she found with the Watch, and she expected the full Reward; adding, that her Husband was near at Hand, and she would fetch him, and if he was willing to take that, she should not object against it.

HEREUPON she stept to him, and acquainted him with what the Gentleman said, wherefore he went himself, desiring to know why he would not pay the Reward, since it was the same Watch that had been advertised, and there was every Thing that was found with it. Mr. * * * answered, he did not refuse paying the whole Reward, provided the other Seal was brought, but durst not do it otherwise, till he had seen the Owner, who valued that particular Seal very much, and whom he expected to see next Day; that he would then acquaint him with this Circumstance, and if he agreed to it, he would pay the Remainder, and in the mean while he would given him ten Guineas directly.

THE Soldier expostulated with the Gentleman sometime longer, telling him, he insisted upon the whole, or the Watch again; but finding he would not part with any more, till he had seen the Proprietor of the Watch, at last he pulled the other Seal out of his Pocket, and asked if that was it; being answered it was, he said he hoped then he should have the full Reward, to which Mr. * * * * * immediately agreed without farther Words, offering him a Bank Note for that Sum, which he declined taking, and desired to have it in Gold, which was comply'd with directly.

AFTER receiving the Money, he expressed a great Desire to see the Gentleman himself, even tho' he were to have had no Reward, and gave Mr. * * * * * * * three small Keys, which he said belonged to the same Person, and begging he would acquaint him with his wanting to speak with him, (which was promised) and he would call again to know his Answer: But he said this only for a Blind, that so Mr. * * * * * * * might not suspect the villainous Method by which he had acquired it, for he never intended to trouble him any more.

AS soon as he had got Possession of his Booty, and was arrived at home, he consulted with his Wife, whether he had not better sink some of it upon his Companions, since they could neither Write nor Read, and might, therefore, very probably, never know what he received. The Result of this Consultation was, that he should keep eight Guineas to himself, and share only the remaining twelve with his Comrades; accordingly he carried it to James Ruggles and John S - , telling them the Watch had been advertised, and he had received that Sum for it: Whereupon they honestly agreed between them, as C - was then in the Savoy, to share 3 Guineas and a half a Man, give half a Guinea to the Soldier's Wife, and the remaining Guinea to C - , with which, however, he was very well contented, as he was then just going Abroad.

ANOTHER Night Thomas C - being alone in the Park, and having singled out a Person whom he thought fit for his Purpose, according to his wonted Custom in the Evening, accosted him in the usual Dialect, and soon struck up a Bargain with him, to which he was but too readily inclin'd. They agreed then to withdraw to a Place convenient for their wicked Purpose, which was in the Middle-Park, where being arrived, and C - observing a proper Opportunity, snatched his Silver Watch out of his Pocket, and scowr'd off therewith immediately; the Gentleman calling after him to stop, but in vain. With this Booty he came directly to the House of his old Comrade, the Taylor before-mentioned, who made the Company Waistcoats, and desired him to pawn it.

THE other answered, it was a large old-fashioned Watch, and would not fetch much. Upon which C - said, D - n it, what can I do with it, I don't know; nor I neither, reply'd the other. At last C - cried, you may as well buy it, you can tell better how to dispose of it than I. Whereupon the Taylor asked, what he would have for it? C - answered, a Guinea. His Comrade answered, with a Smile, that is more than I can pledge it for to any one: Besides, suppose I could pawn it for so much, what should I get by that? He told him, however, if he approved of it, he would give him 15 s. for it, at a venture. To which C - agreeing, he paid the Money, and keeping it afterwards for some time till he could meet with a Purchaser to his Mind, sold it for 2 l. 2 s. 6 d.

AFTER this hopeful Prank, T – C - and James Ruggles , being out together in the Park, (the usual Place of Rendezvous, it seems, for such Gentry) and looking out sharp for their Prey, C - , who was generally the Decoy-Duck on these Occasions, having fixed upon a Gentleman for his Purpose, went up to him, and accosted him in the usual Terms. His Company, as it appeared, was not disagreeable to his new Acquaintance; for they soon agreed to take a Walk together to the Back-Side of the Library in the Middle-Park, where they immediately proceeded to the detestable Business for which they had retir'd thither.

IN the mean while James Ruggles , who had followed them at a Distance, and waited only till he saw them closely engaged, came up to them, and seizing upon the Gentleman, cry'd, D - n your Blood you Dog, what are you a Mollying one another? Give me what you have this Minute, or I will carry your directly to the Guard-Room. The Gentleman, confounded and frightened almost out of his Wits, made answer, he did not come along with the young Man for any Harm, and desired Ruggles not to use him ill; but C - soon silenced him, by crying out, indeed he seduced me hither to Molly me. Hereupon Ruggles immediately said, D - n you, you Dog, let me have what you have got this Instant; and running his Hand directly into his Fob and Pockets, took out his Watch therewith and made off.

HAVING thus possessed themselves of these unrighteous Gains, they next consulted how to dispose of the Watch, and C - offer'd Ruggles to let him have it for 16 s. Ruggles agreeing to give him 15 s. 6 d. the Bargain was soon struck, though when he had got Possession of it, he was forced to keep it for sometime not knowing well what to do with it. At last, bethinking himself that his Fellow-Soldier and old Comrade, R – B - the Taylor, used sometimes to buy such Things, he carried it to him, and asked if he would purchase it; he consented thereto readily, provided they could agree, and asked what he demanded for it? He answered, Two Guineas and a Half. Two Guineas and a Half! crys the Taylor, that is more than I could fell it for, if it was my own, and I would not give above half the Money; whereupon Ruggles asked what was the most he would offer, and B - answered a Guinea and a Half; he replied, he would keep it for ever first; upon which they parted for that Time.

A little while after, however, he came again to B - , and repeated the Question, what was the most he would give for the Watch? To which the other answered, he could not afford to bid much more, if he proposed to get any Thing by it; Ruggles replied, he would not take that, but if he would give Two Guineas, it should be a Bargain. B - then bid a Crown more, but Ruggles would not take it, upon which he advanced to Two Pounds, which Sum the other likewise refused; at last he told him, unless he would give him Six-pence out of the two Guineas, he would have nothing to do with it. To this Ruggles readily agreed, and the Money was paid down; whereupon B - kept the Watch about two Months, and then disposed of it to one Serjeant F - , of the First Regiment of Foot-Guards, for Four Pounds.

NOT long after this, Tom C - , James Ruggles , John S - , and R – B - , being altogether at their accustomed Rendezvous, the Park, and about the usual Hour, namely, between nine and ten at Night, C - having fixed his Eyes upon one S - n, a Glover, as they found afterwards, addressed him in his wonted Manner, and having soon struck up a Bargain, decoyed him to the Back Side of Buckingham Wall, near the Ice-House, whither his villainous Companions followed them at a Distance.

THEY had not been long there, before they began to be very busy together; upon which the others immediately ran up to them, and seizing the Glover by the Collar, demanded what they were about, swearing bitterly at the same Time, unless he would give 'em all he had about him, they would carry him directly to the Guard-Room. He was not, however, so easily frightened out of his Money as their former Bubbles, for he refused to comply with their Demands, and told them, he would sooner choose to go to the Guard, for he had done no Harm, having only come thither innocently with that young Man, meaning C - . When they found him so willing to go to the Guard, they refused to give him that Liberty, and insisted upon taking what he had about him; accordingly, running their Hands into his Pockets, they pulled out a Purse, wherein C - pretended there was but 14 s. though they afterwards heard there was more, but they could never find how much; and this done, they went to B - 's House, where they divided the Spoil.

SOME Time after this, S - , Ruggles, and B - , happened to meet the same Person in their usual Walks in the Park, and S - accosted him in the ordinary Dialect of those Gentry. One would have thought the ill Treatment he had met with not long before, should have made him take Warning, and be very cautious what new Acquaintance he engaged with; but so strongly was he addicted to this abominable and unnatural Vice,

that, not knowing S - was one of those who had robbed him before, he readily agreed to go along with him to the same Place, where he had been with C - . We believe, therefore, but few will pity him, when they see him fall, a second Time, into the same Snare, as he accordingly did in a few Minutes: For James Ruggles and R – B - , who were upon the Watch, and had followed them at a Distance, as usual, no sooner perceived them very busy together, than they rushed upon them, (S - , who saw them coming, seizing at the same Time on the Glover with one Hand) and asked them, with two or three D - ns, Whether they were Mollying of each other.

HEREUPON S - , who knew his Cue, and had his Lesson very perfect, cry'd out, Pray, Gentlemen, be civil; I confess, he wanted indeed to ruin me, but I would not comply with his wicked Desires, and therefore I caught him fast by the Arm, and held him so, that he could not escape. Aye, aye, hold the Dog, said his hopeful Associates, and bring him to the Guard-Room, unless he will give you all he has about him. Whether in so doing, S - might have hurt him terribly or not, which is far from unlikely, we can't say, but he called out, Murder! Murder! as loud as he could several times, though to little Purpose, nobody coming to his Rescue. The lawless Villains not regarding his Outcries, or troubling themselves whether they hurt him or not, told him, D - n you, you Dog, we don't value your bawling out, had you twenty of your Mollying Rascals about you, they should not save you; which said, they immediately proceeded to lay him under Contribution, running their Hands into his Breeches, and taking all the Money he had.

NEITHER did this satisfy them, for they examined likewise the Contents of his Coat and Waistcoat, wherein, however, they met with no great Booty, finding only a Pocket-Book, in which were divers Notes and Bills, giving an Account of his Name, Habitation, and Business, which was of no manner of Service to them. Not knowing, therefore, what to do with it, R – B - , after keeping it some Time, sent his Wife therewith to the Glover's House, believing it might be of Use to him, and, perhaps, expecting some small Reward for restoring it: But the Man happening not to be at home, she brought it back again, though the Servant who answered her, and had asked her Business, which she told him, desired her to leave it; so he received no Benefit from B - 's good Intentions, which was the more the Pity, because, we are afraid, he was not often troubled with them; for, telling his Wife, he would run no further Hazards about it, he immediately threw the Notes into the Fire, and kept the Book for his own Use.

SOME Time after this Exploit, B - and C - being at their wonted Rendezvous, the Park, about ten at Night, and, as was before observed, like their old Master the D - l, seeking whom they might devour, the latter accosted a Gentleman, whom he judged fit for his Purpose, (wherein, as has been seen, by whatever Marks he knew them, he was never deceived) and after some other customary Discourse upon that Head, asked whether they should take a Walk together; the usual Phrase, it seems, among such Gentry, for entering into close Conversation. The Gentleman, who undoubtedly had received Intimation of the many Robberies committed by this audacious and abandoned Gang, in that Neighbourhood, asked, whither they should go? and upon C - 's answering, the best Place he knew for their Purpose, was the back Side of Buckingham Wall, in the Green Park. He answered, No, I will not go thither, for there are always a Knot of Villains upon the Watch, to make a Property of such as we.

HEREUPON C - h (being resolved his Prey should not escape him, if he could possibly prevent it) said, Whither will you go, do you think we can be safer any where else? The Gentleman answer'd, Yes, come along with me. This said, they went out at the Stable-yard, till they arrived at a long unfrequented Passage that leads into St. James's-street, whither B - n followed them as usual. They stopt just under an Arch-Way in this Passage, and being willing to loose no Time, were very busily engaged before B - n could get up to them: C - h, who was upon the Watch expecting him, no sooner saw him approach, than he seized his new Acquaintance fast by the Collar, and there held him. B - n then came up, and said with a stern Voice, D - n you, you Dogs, have I caught you at last? Give me what you have directly, or I will take you to the Watch. The Gentleman being unwilling to go to the Watch, and equally unwilling to part with his Money, struggled hard to prevent B - n putting his Hands into his Pockets: In doing which, he was over-power'd, and they took from him about 5 l.

NOT long after this Complication of Villainy, C - h went by himself into the Park to look for Prey, and fixing his Eye upon a Gentleman whom he judg'd suitable for his Purpose, and whom he believes to have been a Foreigner, accosted him in the ordinary Dialect, and soon prevailed on him to withdraw into the Middle Park. Being arrived at one of the most private Places, the Gentleman offered to proceed to such a Sort of Conversation as had induced him to retire thither; but C - h, who had other Designs in his Head, not only refused to comply, but violently seized hold of him, and with a stern Voice said, D - n your Blood, you Dog, now I have you, and unless you immediately deliver your Watch, and what Money you have about you, I will drag you to the Guard-Room directly.

THE other refused complying with this Demand, but to little Purpose; for C - having him at a great Disadvantage, held him fast with one Hand, whilst he searched all his Pockets with the other, and took out from thence 18 s. in Money, a silver Watch, and a Snuff-box of the same; this done, he left the poor Foreigner to bemoan his ragged Fortune, and went directly with the Spoil to R - d B - , whom he acquainted with the way he got it, and consulted how he should dispose thereof. B - answered, it was nothing to him, they were his, and he might do as he pleased with them. C - reply'd, he knew not how to dispose of them, wherefore if he (B - n) had a mind for them, he would sell them to him, for he believed he knew best what to do with them. He then ask'd him what he demanded for them; if you like the Snuff-box says the other, at 10 s. it is yours; he offer'd 9 s. and the other taking him at his word deliver'd the Box, which he fold after keeping it sometime to a Silver-smith in the Strand for 14 s.

THE very Night that C - committed the Robbery beforementioned, one Corporal S - , who belonged to the same Company, but was upon Windsor Party, came to Town on purpose to send some Money down to his Wife by another Corporal, who was going to St. Edmund's-Bury, where she lives: Just after he was gone from B - 's, in comes C - h, with his Booty, and being told, that Corporal S - had been there, ask'd where he was gone, and was answer'd, they did not know, but expected him to return soon, as accordingly he did. C - express'd himself that he was glad to see him, and ask'd, if he would go and take part of a Pot, to which he readily agreed. In their way to the Alehouse, they pass'd by an Oyster-stall, whereupon, C - ask'd S - , If he would have any Oysters? The latter agreeing to this also, he treated him with Four-penny worth; and while they were eating them, the Foreigner, whom C - had

robb'd, came by and saw him; but not thinking it safe to apprehend him without Help, went on to a Watchman, and desired his Assistance to take him. Accordingly the Watchman came with him; but when they came to the Oyster-stall, he was just gone; upon which, the Gentleman ask'd which Way he went, and they answer'd towards Hyde-Park-Corner.

THEY made haste therefore after him, and had not gone many Doors further, before the Gentleman saw C - h in a Publick House, drinking with his Companion; and as he could discern every Thing that passed, by the Light of the Candles thro' the Window, he observ'd him winding up the very Watch, and pulling out the very Box he had taken from him. Hereupon he told the Watchman they were the same Things he had been robbed of, and desired he would go in and apprehend him; but the Fellow answered, There were two of them, wherefore he durst not venture in alone. Upon which they went to get another to assist them, and when they returned back, the Birds were flown.

THAT same Night, after this Disappointment, the poor Foreigner going along Piccadilly, saw another Soldier, whom he mistook for the Person that had robbed him, and accordingly charged him with the Fact; upon which he was taken up and carried to St. James's Watch-house, where he was kept all Night. Next Morning the Soldier sent for his Landlady, who gave him the Character of a very innocent inoffensive Man; adding, that he had not been out of her House at the Time the Gentleman said he was robbed.

HE sent therefore to the Place where he had seen C - h drinking the Night before, to ask the Mistress of the House, If she should know the Soldier that was there last Night, in Company with a Corporal? And upon her answering, She believed she should, were she to see him again, she was desired to step and view him who was in Custody, which she did, and as soon as she set Eyes on him, declared, He was not the Person; for the Man who was at her House, was a tall, clean-looking Fellow, with a Blue Grey Coat, a Red Waistcoat, and a Pair of Buckskin Breeches; besides which he had Reddish Hair, so that she should know him from a Thousand. Upon this her Evidence, and the Character given of him by his own Landlady, the poor Fellow was discharged, and the Foreigner was forced to fit down contentedly with his Loss.

SOME Time after this, Ruggles and S - being in the Park, they met a Gentleman agreeable to their Mind, whom they accosted as usual, and proposed a Walk to him, to which he readily agreed; whereupon they withdrew to the Side of the Reservoir, in the Green Park, whither Ruggles dogg'd them, and when they were close engaged, ran up. S - h seeing Ruggles at Hand, fastens directly upon him, and crys out, I have got a Molly; and Ruggles coming to his Assistance said, Aha, you Mollying Dog, have I caught you, you shall pay for your Pastime. The Gentleman begged they would not use him Ill; upon which they answered, D - n your Blood, you Dog, what have you got about you? And without further Ceremony rifled him of all his Money, a Gold Watch, and 2 Seals set in Gold, as also an enamel'd Ring with the Name of Richard Perkins thereon.

SOME short Time after, they all went out again upon the old Lay, and pick'd up another Bubble in the Park, whom one of them asked to take a Walk, whilst the rest followed at a Distance, and coming up at a Time they judged convenient, they furiously catch'd the Man by the Collar, and cry'd, D - n your Blood, what are you Mollying each other? Whereupon he said, For God's Sake, Gentlemen, don't use me ill, for I am but a poor Man. Whereto they answered, D - n you Blood, don't think to come upon this Lay without Money in your Pocket; and immediately fell to searching him, and took from him an old Bag, with 4 l. 10 s. in Silver, and one Guinea therein, as also 3 Gold Rings, and then left him,

C - h, S - w, and S - h, going one Way, and Ruggles and B - , with the Bag, another.

THE two last being thus by themselves, and in the Possession of the Booty, says B - n to Ruggles, Let us open the Bag, and see what we have got. This he readily agreed to, and on so doing the last told 15 s. (as he thought) under a Lamp: Whereupon B - n, who had observed one Piece, which he took for a Guinea (as it really was) cry'd to him, I will take this Shilling, (laying hold thereon) and do you keep another. No, says Ruggles, give me that Shilling, and here is half a Crown, which we will sink between us, and that is better. Upon which B - , slipping his Hand into his Pocket, took out another Shilling and gave him, by which Means he got the Guinea to himself. They proceeded then to a Publick House near St. James's, where they all met by Appointment, and divided the rest of the Money.

AFTER this, James Ruggles , D - d S - w, and R - d B - n, went out together into the Park, as usual, and there picks up one William Church , a Joyner, and after some short Discourse retired with him to the Place where they commonly went on such Occasions, and were soon close engaged. Hereupon Ruggles and S - w ran up, and cry'd out, with an Oath or two, You Mollying Dogs, what are you about? To which the Joyner, as if mighty Innocent, made Answer, Nothing, Gentlemen; only this Villain, (meaning B - n) brought me hither, and I thought no Harm: With that, D - n your Blood, you Dog, reply'd they, had you not been that Way given, you had not come with him; which indeed was true. They proceeded then to rummage him of his Money and a Silver Watch, which they sold some Time after to one Solomon Moses , a Jew, (as they did that they had so taken before) for 9 l. 11 s. 6 d. and for this Fact S - w and Ruggles were apprehended, try'd, and condemn'd, but afterwards Repriev'd.

THEY were taken in the following Manner, viz. James Ruggles , J - n S - h, T - s C - h, and R - t P - r, being out one Night upon the same detestable Lay, and getting in Liquor, picked a Quarrel with some Chairmen, near St. James's, and broke their Chair Glasses, whereupon the Chairmen charged them with the Guard then upon Duty, and they were all sent to the Savoy.

WE come now to another Sett of heinous Criminals, though, in our Opinion, much more Excusable than the former, amongst the Chief of which was Joseph Walters , who since made himself an Evidence. This Malefactor, it seems, using about 2 Years ago, to frequent the Prince of Orange Alehouse , on Saffron-Hill , and happening to be in Liquor there, one Evening, by the Instigation as he pretends, of William Gascoign , John Neale , and William Bolton , since dead on Board the Royal Sovereign, who proposed to him to go a Thieving; he consented to accompany them upon that Lay; and the first Fact wherein he was concerned with them, was in taking a Spring of Pork out of a Pork-Shop in Theobald's Row , near Gray's-Inn-Lane , about seven one Winter Evening.

AFTER this, they frequently walk'd out towards Night, from St. Paul's to Temple-Bar , where their Business was to pick Gentlemen's Pockets of their Handkerchiefs; and as he was then what they called a Green-Horn, and not so dextrous as they, who were old Practioners, they used to top it, which is, just to take it out a little, after which, he put the finishing Hand to it, and at last, became as perfect at it as they. In this Manner, they made 18 or 20 of a Night, and sometimes more; especially if it was on any particular Day, as the Lord-Mayor's, or the Feast of the Son's of the Clergy, &c.

WITH these, on a Sunday Morning, they used to go to Sir John Oldcastle's, just by the Booth, where they used to toss up a Handkerchief against so much Money, whereby they frequently used to get more for them than they could at the Fences:

SOME Time after they took into their Company one Thomas Inkle , a Boy, when being five in Number, they divided, and went some one Way, and some another; but not meeting with that Success as formerly, ( Tom Inkle not being a good Hand, and besides the Gentlemen using to fasten their Handkerchiefs, they left it off, and betook themselves to a new Course.

THIS was, for Tom Inkle , who was very small, to get of an Evening behind Hackney-Coaches, and draw out the Nails with an old Knife, whilst the others followed after, and if he was detected, by any one's telling the Coachman of it, they would say, he was only riding behind to ease his Legs a little, and hold the Man in Talk till the Boy made his Escape. After this Manner they used to get 3 or 4 Pounds of a Night, which they sold to a Founder in Shoe-Lane, till at last the Man having some Suspicion of them, they would not venture to sell him any more, for Fear he should down with them.

FINDING this would not do, as they reaped but small Advantage from thence, they bethought themselves of stealing the Lamps from Gentlemen's Doors, of which they used to get frequently about a Dozen and a half of a Night, mostly by Bloomsbury and Red-Lion-Squares , or thereabouts, and some from Coleman-street ; and when they had broke them, for the Sake of the Glass, they generally used to sell three of them for a Shilling; wherefore they thought these of so little Value, they were not worth running the Risque of Transportation.

THE next Trade then, to which Gascoign, Neal, and Walters resolved to betake themselves, was to go a Street-Robbing, and as Tom Inkle was too little for this, they turned him off; after which, setting out upon that Lay, one Evening about a Year and a half ago, and meeting a Woman by the new Pond between Islington and Black-Mary's-Hole, they knocked her down with a Bludgeon, and then searching her, took her Pocket, but found therein no more than one Shilling. From thence they proceed to Mount-Pleasant, where meeting with another Woman, they knocked her down likewise, without saying a Word to her, and took from her a Gloucestershire Cheese; after which being closely pursued, Walters intermingling with the Mob, and crying out, Stop Thief! as loud as the rest, fortunately got off, tho' he had the Cheese at the same Time under his Coat.

ABOUT an Hour after the Commission of this Robbery, one Burroughs said, he heard some People tell the Woman, they knew the Man that knock'd her down, it was young Walters: Whereupon Gascoign and he entered themselves on board the Chester Man of War, a Fifty Gun Ship, then lying at Deptford ; However, as neither of them loved Work, or cared to be confined, Walters staid aboard but four Days, before he ran away, and was followed by his Comrade Gascoign in about two Days after.

GASCOIGN

There being so many Facts and Particulars given by these Eighteen unhappy Convicts, as render it impracticable to bring the sa within the usual Compass, and yet are so necessary to be known, we are obliged to refer our Readers to the Second Part of this Account, which will be published on Monday next; wherein the Readers will find a full Relation of all the Robberies committed by those vile abandon'd Wretches belonging to the Black-Boy-Alley Gang. Likewise a particular Account of three Mrders that were committed, two by them, and the other by Anne Duck , who was Executed in November last, and one Elizabeth Nash , now a Prisoner in Clerkenwell-Bridewell : with several other remarkable Accounts; particularly four Letters of Surplice Du Clot , the Valet ; to a Lady, and the other three to Gentlemen of Distinction, faithfully translated from the Original French.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS Who were Executed at TYBURN, ON MONDAY the 24th of DECEMBER, 1744.

BEING THE First EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honourable Henry Marshal, Esq;

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

Number I. Part II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLIV.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

GASCOIGN had not staid long in Town, before he entered himself on Board the Barfleur, then lying at Portsmouth, where he staid almost nine Months; in which Time Walters alone committed the following Robberies. One Evening meeting a Welchman, who had brought Cattle to Town to sell, between the New River Head and Islington, he stopt him, and demanded his Money. The Man, either not understanding him, or pretending so, answered him in Welch; upon which Walters told him he must be expeditious, for his Business required it, and was going to put his Hand into his Pockets, but the Man resisted, wherefore he struck him on the Head with his Stick, but did not knock him down. The poor Fellow still continuing to struggle, he gave him a second Blow, which effectually fell'd him to the Ground; after which he took from him his Whip, and 9 s. in Money, and then stroll'd to the Prince of Orange's Head , his old House of Call, where he staid some Time, and afterwards went Home.

Gascoign returning Home again, and Walters acquainting him what he had done in his Absence, he made Answer, he had done the same both at Portsmouth and Gosport , but it turned to a poor Account; upon which they both agreed to go a Street-Robbing again. Accordingly, setting out one Evening with that Design, they met a Woman who was going to Islington , between that which was Stokes's and the Turnpike, and bid her stand, and deliver what she had about her, otherwise they would kill her. The poor Woman, terrify'd greatly, reply'd, Indeed I have nothing, and if you will not believe search me, but pray don't use me ill: Whereup they did so, and could find but 5 d. which the gave her again, but took her Cloak; after they impudently ordered her to go to the Ale-house, and spend her 3 d. and tell how she been served; adding, if they came, they should be served the same Sauce.

AFTER this Robbery, they got acquaited with one John Hill , and rightly judging himself their Purpose, asked if he would go out with them upon the same Lay? To which he reply'd, with all his Heart, for he had followed hat Course already some Years. He then told them he wanted a Couple of good Hands to move off some Hay, for he had a Customer ready for it: Whereupon they all went, about Ten at Night, to one Mr. Harris's, a Brickmaker in Gray's-Inn-Lane , and stole five Trusses out of the Hay-loft, and carried them to one Mrs. R - 's in Hog-Island who, tho' they were so sharp, was still too sharp for them; for, on its being brought thither, one of the Servants bid them set it down in the Stable, and as soon as his Mistress came in, she would pay them for it; but, if they

are to be believed, they never had a Farthing.

THE next Robbery, or rather Robbing, Gascoign, Hill, and Walters were concerned in, jointly, were as follows: Meeting a Man in the King's Road , near Gray's-Inn-Lane , they stopp'd him, and took from him a Shilling, and a Tobacco-Box; he proved to be a Smith in Cold-Bath Fields. The same Night, meeting another in the same Place, they stopp'd him likewise, and as he had no Money, stript him of his Coat. That very Night also, meeting a Third in Hatton-Garden , they robbed him of his Hat and Wig, and seven Shillings and Six-pence in Money; after which, he crying out Stop Thief! Gascoign turn'd back and knock'd him down, which done they all made off.

BUT not being yet contented, they went directly into High Holborn , where stopping a Fourth, and taking him up a Court, strip'd him of his Coat, Waistcoat, Breeches and Shirt, after which, Gascoign and Walters brush'd off. Having gone a little way, and missing Hill, who they thought had followed them, they judg'd the Person whom they had robb'd, had secured him; upon which, Gascoign said, let us go back, as they accordingly did; but a Man coming up to Walters, with a Design to seize him, and crying out, Here he is; Walters having the Cloaths, threw them in his Face, and during the Surprize this put him in, he made off, and ran directly Home to Bed.

HE had not been long there, however, before Hill and Gascoign came under the Window, and whistled; upon which, Walters knowing their Voices, got up, and went down Stairs to them. Hill's Father was then with them, and he began to tell him, what Danger they had been in, and what a narrow Escape they had; which, however, was not sufficient to make them take warning; for they continued afterwards about an Hour together, with Intent to rob any one they could meet conveniently, wherein, nevertheless, they were disappointed for that Bout; upon which, Walters again returned Home to Bed.

THE next Evening, they went into the King's-Road , where they attacked a Woman; whilst they were so doing, five Men came up, one of them catching Hold of Walters, cried out, I have got him; To which Walters answering, D - n you, you lie, knock'd him down directly, and made his Escape: Hearing, however, that Jack Hill was in Custody, and being afraid of being impeach'd, he went voluntarily, and surrendered, and in order to be accepted as an Evidence, went with the Officers, and assisted in securing John Hill (the Father, who was tried and acquited, but the Son was condemned) which they did accordingly, took him out of his Bed, in Baldwin's Gardens ; but Gascoign escaped, and, as is believed, went to Sea.

As the following Malefactors, Joseph Uptebake , John Jeffs , William Lawrence , otherwise Lemmox , James Leekey , William Robinson , Samuel South , and Robert Grane , otherwise Graham , have been some of the most active Villains that have for a long time infested the Town, we believe the ensuing Account of the many Robberies they have committed, will not be unacceptable to the Publick.

ABOUT fifteen Months ago, Joseph Uptebake , the first of this notorious Gang, meeting John Jeffs accidentally in West-Smithfield, they express'd great Joy at seeing each other, and after some other mutual Discourse, and enquiring how each of them liv'd, since they were last together, Jeffs asked Uptebake whether he went still on the Old Lay †, to which the other answering, that he did, whenever he had an Opportunity; then said Jeffs, I have now a dead Set, if you will go along with me. To this Uptebake very readily consented, and away they went together, to an Oil-Shop, at the Corner of Maddox Street , over-against St. George's Church , where they found the Sash of one of the Parlour Windows up, and saw, near it, a new Stuff Poplin Gown, hanging upon the Back of a Chair; whereupon, Jeffs reaching as far as he could over the Rails, caught hold thereof, and pull'd it out; after which, not finding any thing else for their Purpose, they went immediately therewith to * Elizabeth Cane ,

† That is, a Thieving.

* She was tried last Sessions, and is to be transported for buying Stolen Goods, knowing them to be so; and is an old Offender this Way, having followed the Trade above twenty Years.

otherwise Lawrence , otherwise Lemmox , in Cross-Lane , St. Giles's in the Fields , who gave them six Shillings for it, which they shared between them.

NOT long after this, these two sworn Brothers in Iniquity, being at one Grimes's, in Church-Lane , St. Giles's , agreed to lye there together that Night, and set out early in the Morning in quest of fresh Booty. Accordingly they took their Way down Long-Acre , and at the Corner of Langley-street, under the Archway , they found a Back-door only upon the Latch, which Jeffs made bold to lift up, and go in; and in a Back Parlour, the Door of which was open, saw a Woman in Bed fast asleep; whereupon, Uptebake cautioned him to do his Business softly, both for fear of disturbing her Repose, and of being likewise disturbed themselves; accordingly Jeffs, without much Noise, stript the Room of a great many valuable Things, which he handed to his Companion, and with which they both got clear off, without waking the Woman, and carrying them to their old Receiver Bess Cane , sold them for what she was pleas'd to give them, which probably was not above a quarter of what they were really worth.

THE next Exploit, wherein we find Uptebake concerned, was about the 22d of September, 1743, at 7 in the Evening, when, in Conjunction with William Lawrence , otherwise Lemmox , which last was the Name by which he most commonly went; he broke into a House in Carnaby-Market , and, as all was Fish with them that came to the Net, took from thence an old Crape Gown, a Work-basket, some Dutch Tiles, several Pieces of Linnen, a small Wainscot Box, containing divers Caps, Handkerchiefs and Head-cloaths; a Net Purse with two Half Guineas therein, an old broken Brass Seal, wrapt up in Cotton-wool, and a Canvas-Bag, wherein were eighteen Guineas, two Half-Guineas, two Moidores, and one Piece of thirty six Shillings; with all which they got clear off, to Lawrence's House in Cross-Lane, where they divided the Money equally between them, and gave the Gown to Elizabeth Cane , their trusty Sister in Iniquity, who was the pretended Wife of the said Lawrence.

THE February following, one Evening about seven, the before-mentioned hopeful Gentry, Uptebake and Lemmox, together with one Samuel South , by Trade a Watchmaker , set out from the old Place of Rendezvous, Lemmox's in Cross-Lane , upon the Old Lay, and steering their Course towards the Court-End of the Town, went to the Green-Door in Wardour Street , where they determined to try their Fortune.

In order to this, Lemmox, by the help of a false Key, given him by South, who had provided himself with several for that Purpose, open'd the Door, and South going in first, ventur'd directly up one Pair of Stairs, from whence he soon after brought down a Hair Trunk, which he handed to Uptebake, who conveyed it some Distance from the House, and waited there for his Companions; not content therewith, however, Lemmox went in afterwards, whilst South walk'd to and fro before the Door, to be upon the Watch; and in a little time, Lemmox, who likewise ventured up Stairs, came out with a Cedar Box under his Arm; which done, they made the best of their Way to Cross-Lane, where they examined into the Contents of their Booty.

UPON rummaging the Trunk, they found therein a Velvet Pilgrim, a Hood of the same, with several laced Caps, and Handkerchiefs; as also a small Basket of Nuns Work, covered with Silk, and made to draw up with Ribbons at the Top like a Purse. They proceeded then to open the Cedar-Box, and found therein another of Tunbridge Ware, consisting of four Partitions, made to screw and unscrew. In the first of these Partitions they found a Woman's Girdle-Buckle of white Pebble Stones, set in Silver, with a Steel Chape: In the second, were a Pair of Diamond Ear-Rings, a Ring of the same, another of plain Gold, and a Man's Head in Miniature set in the same precious Metal. In the third Partition, were several Stone Drops for Ladies Ears, with divers Head-cloths, and Handkerchiefs; and in the fourth and last were several French Necklaces; all of which they disposed of to Bess Cane , for seven Pounds, which they shared equally between them.

NOT satisfied with this Purchase, however, the very next Day being Sunday, the same honest Triumvirate, agreed to go out again in Quest of fresh Prey; and accordingly, Night being come, they steer'd to Compton-street , Soho , where they broke open the House of a Bricklayer, from whence they carried of several Parcels of Linnen of all Sorts, as Shirts, Shifts, Aprons, Frocks, Sheets, Napkins and Table-Cloths, for which, they received of their before mentioned hopeful Receiver, the Sum of 5 Pounds.

HAVING perform'd this Exploit, whatever was the Reason of their being so long idle, we don't hear of their being engag'd in any other of the like Nature, till about two Months after, when Uptebake and Lawrence went from their old Rendezvous in Cross-Lane , to St. James's Market , between the Hours of 7 and 8 in the Evening, where, having fixed upon a Cheesemongers, at the Corner of the pav'd Court that goes into Charles-Street, St. James's-Square , as the Place where they would begin their Operations; they carried of from thence a Silver Pint Mug, five large Spoons of the same, four or five Tea-spoons ditto, with a small Pair of Buckles, of the same Metal, which they immediately disposed of to honest Bess Cane , at the Rate of 3 s. 6 d. an Ounce, at which Price they amounted to five Pounds twelve Shillings; which done, they divided the Spoil, receiving each of them 2 l. 15 s. a Man.

THE next notable Exploit perform'd by them, whereof we have had Information, was one Sunday Evening last February, about six o'Clock, when Uptebake and Lemmox going to Castle street near the Meuse, broke open a Back-House, behind a Turner's-Shop, facing Cranbourn-Alley , from whence they took a Silver Cream-Boat, a small Shagreen Case, with half a dozen Teaspoons a Strainer and a Pair of Tongs, as also an old Bob Peruke; which last they burnt at one Bradbury's, at the Black-Horse in Church-Lane , St. Giles's , and for the rest, they disposed of them, as usual, to their old Friend Elizabeth Cane .

NOT long after this Robbery, the same industrious Couple Uptebake and Lemmox going to King street , St. Giles's , next Door to the Sign of the Two Spies, Lemmox unlatch'd the Street-door, leading into the Passage, and push'd through into the Yard, and whilst he so did, as there was another Door with a Sash, between the Passage and the Shop, he desired Uptebake to keep upon the Watch there, that, if a Woman, who was in the Shop should rise, he might give timely Notice.

AS if it happened, however, this Caution, no more than was prudent, prov'd unnecessary; for, notwithstanding, Uptebake, whilst he stood Centinel, plainly heard Lemmox shove the Sash of the Back Parlour-Window, after which, he came out of the Yard, with a Wai-Box under his Arm, the Woman very fortunately for them, and unluckily for herself, was so intent on what she was about, that she never minded it; but they both got off, without any Disturbance or Intermission, and went as far as Nottingham-Court , where Lemmox gave it to Uptebake to carry the rest of the Way to their old Rendezvous, his House.

BEING come thither, they proceeded to examine their Booty, when they found it had three Locks thereon; whereupon, Lemmox said, This is a Club-Box; to which Uptebake answered with an Oath, if it was the D - ls, they would open it, and accordingly they took out the Bottom. This done, found therein a Book, with the Names and Orders of the Members of the Society; about four or five Shillings in Half-pence loose in the Box; and some Gold and Silver, to the Value of about 8 Pounds, in a Leathern Purse, all of which they shared equally between them.

A Night or two after this, about 7 in the Evening, these faithful Servants of the Prince of Darkness, went into Porter street , near Newport-Market , when Lemmox lifting up the Latch of a Street-door, 3 or 4 Houses below the Sign of the City of Hereford, went directly in, and forcing open the Parlour-door, with his Knee, sent Uptebake in, whilst he staid behind upon the Watch. Uptebake knowing Time to be precious, took Care not to be idle, but soon after, brought out, a new Camblet Gown; a plain Cambrick Handkercheif; a pair of white Tabby Stays; a Straw Hat, and some other Women's Apparel. With all which they got off clear, to their usual Haunt, where their never failing Friend Bess Cane , received them into her Custody, in return for a Guinea and a Half, which they shared between them.

ABOUT a Month after this Exploit, the same two sworn Brothers in Iniquity, being reinforced by their old Acquaintance and Companion, Samuel South , the Watch-maker , steer'd their Course again to Porter-Street , and within two Doors of the House they had robb'd before, broke into the Habitation of Mr. Nicholas, a Jeweller, if only lifting up a Latch can properly be called breaking in: As it happened, a Woman was then in the Fore-Parlour, rocking a Child in its Cradle, which prevented Lemmox from going in thither; whereupon, he proceeded on to the Back Parlour, the Lock of which he ventur'd to turn, notwithstanding the Woman's being in the next Room, and went in.

HE had not been long there, before he came out with a Bundle, and a Curtain fasten'd to a piece of Deal; which Curtain and bit of Deal he threw down an Area in Litchfield Street , but deliver'd the Bundle to Uptebake, who gave it to South. Not satisfied with this, however, and harden'd by his good Luck, Lemmox ventured back again to the same House, with Uptebake, who stood upon the Watch at the Door, and going into the same Room, soon came out again with another Bundle; after which, both made off, as fast as they could; to their old Place of Rendezvous, where they met their Fellow-man, South, with the rest of their Booty.

THEY proceeded then to open their Purchase, wherein they found several Shirts and Shifts, with some Sheets and Table-Linnen, as also divers Caps, Aprons, and Handkerchiefs, together with a Pair of black Velvet Breeches, which they immediately examined: To their Sorrow, however, they found nothing therein, but the Copy of a Letter which a Gentleman had sent to a Lady, requesting her to meet him at the Cross-Keys-Tavern, the Corner of St. Martin's-Lane, and enquire for No. 2. These they sold all to their Old Fence, Bess Cane , for Two Pounds, Twelve Shillings, and Six-Pence.

NOT above a Week after this, about Eight in the Evening, the same honest Triumvirate, Lemmox, South, and Uptebake, directed their Course to King-street , St. Ann's , where they saw an old French Gentlewoman open the Door of a House, facing the Bull Head Alehouse , and calling an Oyster Woman out of the Street, bid her come with her into the Parlour, and open some of them. In the mean Time the old Gentlewoman left the Street Door upon the Jar, which South observing, ventured in, and went directly up one Pair of Stairs, during which Uptebake and Lemmox stood upon the Watch before the Door. As it happened, however, whilst their Comrade South, who did not go up to be idle, was very busily employed above Stairs, the Oyster Woman, having served her Customer, came out, and not only shut the Door of the Parlour, but that of the Street after her.

THIS put them into no small Consternation, and they were some Time at their Wits End, how to get South off with his Booty, which, now the Door was shut, they knew must be attended with some Difficulty. Being willing, therefore, to facilitate his Escape as much as they could, both for Fear his being taken should involve themselves in some Danger, and because, knowing him to be a good Hand, and one who would not let any Opportunity slip, they were loth to loose him, they resolved at last to rap boldly at the Door, which Lemmox accordingly did, not doubting, but on that Occasion, to push out.

IN Effect, just as they had foreseen, every Thing fell out; for, whether South judging who knock'd, and for what Purpose, we know not, but he stood ready at the Turn of the Stairs, and on the old Frenchwoman's going to the Door, and opening it, down Stairs he ran, with what he had laid Hands on, and rushing against her before she could shut it again, pushed her down, and got clear off with them. By this lucky and bold Contrivance, they became Masters of three Mens Coats, a Man's brocaded Night Gown, lin'd with green Shagreen, some Linnen, and a Man's Velvet Cap; all of which they sold to Old true and trusty Bess Cane , for 1 l. 11 s. 6 d. which they equally divided between them.

ABOUT a Week after this fortunate Escape, and near the Hour of Eight in the Evening, these Three hitherto lucky Rogues, who would take no Warning, steered their Course to Grosvenor's-Meuse , where finding a Sash up, at a House that stands in a dark Corner, and a great Quantity of wet Linnen hanging up to dry, South getting over the Rails, and in at the Window, took from off the Lines several fulltrimm'd shirts, three of which he handed thro' the Window to Uptebake, who carried them across the Way to Lemmox, after which he returned to his Post near South, who was still in the Room, and having lost no Time, gave him 8 or 9 Shirts more, all likewise fulltrimm'd.

THEIR Devil was very near failing them this Bout; for a little Girl coming by at that Instant, and observing their Motions, cried out, Thieves! Thieves! upon which South leaping hastily out at the Window, and over the Rails, ran one Way, whilst Uptebake scowr'd off the other, with the Shirts; but two Chairmen pursuing the latter closely, he threw the Linnen (last given him by South) under a Gentleman's Coach, which was standing in Grosvenor-street ;

and whilst the Chairmen were employed in taking them up, he got clear off, as did likewise South and Lemmox, to their old Sanctuary, where they sold the three Shirts, first given by Uptebake to Lemmox, to Bess Cane for 12 s. which they shar'd equally.

ONE would have thought, these two narrow Escapes, and especially the latter, should have kept them in some Awe, and deterr'd them, at least for some Time, from pursuing their former evil Courses; but they were incorrigible, and seemed resolved to verify the old Proverb, He that is born to be hang'd, will never be drowned.

ACCORDINGLY, about a Fortnight after this, between Seven and Eight in the Evening, Lemmox and Uptebake went into Long Ditch , Westminster , and in a Court there, Lemmox unlatching the Door of House, pushed through a Passage into a small Yard behind it, where, shoving up the Sash of the back Parlour Window, he took out a handsome Dressing Glass, with a Drawer under it, which they brought away safely to Bess Cane 's, their old Receiver. On opening the Drawer, tey found therein five large Cambrick Handkerchiefs, with two Half Handkerchiefs, with very broad Lace, and a Woman's Laced Mob, for all which honest Bess gave them 40 s.

AGAIN, about four or five Nights after this, and at the usual Hour of Eight in the Evening, Lemmox and Uptebake, having pick'd up a new Associate, one James Leekey , steer'd their Course to Long-Ditch , Westminster , and going to the back Door of a large House at the Corner of a Court, just through Story's-Gate , they found it open. Hereupon Lemmox ventured in, and opened one of the Parlour Doors; but, whether it was that he changed his Mind, or that he had a Mind to try his new Companion, he came out again directly, and bid Leekey go in, which he readily did.

SOON after, he brought out a long Cambrick Frock, a Woman's lac'd Cap, and two or three Boys Shirts, which he gave to Lemmox: This done, he went in again, and staying about eight Minutes, came out with a large Pier-Glass, which he carried to St. Margaret's Church-yard , Lemmox and Uptebake following him. Having landed it safe there, and finding the Glass rather too big to carry, they all agreed to hire a Coach; and accordingly having called one, and put the Glass therein, they went in themselves, and ordered the Coachman to drive to Duke-street , Lincoln's Inn Fields , where they alighted; then paying off the Man, they went directly, with their Booty, to their old Rendezvous, where they disposed of it to Bess Cane , for 40 s. which they parted between them, tho' probably the Glass alone was worth above thrice that Sum.

ABOUT a Week after this, the same honest Three went into Vine street , Piccadilly , one Saturday Night, and at a Bricklayer's the lower Corner of the Street, they found a Door which opened into a long Passage, and which Leekey undid; then going into the Passage, he saw another Door, which led into the House, and which he undid likewise; and pushing in, and finding the two Parlour Doors open, he went in, and after a short Stay (Lemmox and Uptebake being in the mean while upon the Watch) brought out two silver Castors, the one for Pepper and the other for Mustard, with a third larger than the others for Sugar, and six Silver Tea Spoons: Nor had he been satisfied with these, had he not been disturbed by the Maid's coming down Stairs, which obliged him to make the best of his Way out, otherwise he had brought off many more Things of Value.

FROM thence they proceeded in Search of farther Adventures, as far as Spring Garden near Charing-Cross , where they observed a Woman sitting at the Foot of a Stair Case, fast asleep, with a Mop and Pail standing by her, and the Street and Parlour Doors all open. Hereupon Leekey stept into the Parlour, and immediately brought out a Child-bed Basket, with a Pair of Sheets, a Bed Gown, a Shift, and several other Things of small Value. The Basket they threw against the Dead Wall near the Plantation Coffee-House ; after which they made the best of their Way with the rest to their old and sure Card, Bess Cane , to whom they disposed of them for Four Pounds, which they divided equally as usual.

ABOUT three Weeks after this, between 8 and 9 at Night, Joseph Uptebake and James Leekey , being at John Bradbury 's, in Church-Lane , St. Giles's , and meeting there with William Robinson , one of the same Stamp, they all agreed to go out upon the Old Lay. Accordingly steer

ing their Course to Queen-street , near the Seven Dials , they all went to a House on the Right Side of the Way from the Dials, where Leekey lifting up the Latch of the Street Door, ventured in, and opening the Parlour Door likewise he went in thither also; from whence, in about eight Minutes, he brought out a Bundle, with which they all got clear off to their Old Fence, Bess Cane 's, where they proceeded to examine into the Contents. These they found to be a Woman's Silk Gown, a Silk quilted Petticoat, a Pair of White Tabby Stays, a Pair of Silver Lac'd Shoes, an old Shirt, and an old White Waistcoat, all of which they sold to their Trusty Receiver, for Two Pounds Ten Shillings.

ABOUT the Middle of September, 1743, one Saturday, between 6 and 7 in the Evening, Lemmox and Uptebake, not loving to be idle, set out from their old Rendezvous in Cross-Lane , like true Knight Errants, in Search of Adventures, and steering into Porters street near Newport Market , as having been a Place pretty lucky to them, found the Street Door of a House, a little above the Hand and Tipstaff, upon the Latch: Whereupon Lemmox pushed in directly to the fore Parlour Door, and finding it shut, forced it open with his Knee, and went in. He had not been there above five Minutes, before he came out with two full trimm'd Shirts, and a small Parcel wrapt up in Paper, which prov'd to be a Child's Doll, to their great Mortification as well as the Child's, and all of which they disposed of to Lemmox's Friend, Bess Cane , for half a Guinea.

THE next Exploit in which we find them concerned together, was very near costing them, or at least one of them, very dear: This was on the 17th of March last, being St. Patrick's Day, when Lemmox and Uptebake went to Broad-street near Carnaby Market , and pitching upon a Stocking Shop, the Corner of Berwick street , for the Scene of Action, where they would exercise their Talents for that Night, the Entry Door being a Jar, Lemmox desired Uptebake to go into the Shop, and keep the Woman in Talk, on Pretence of buying some Stockings; which he accordingly did.

IN the mean Time Lemmox went thro' the Entry, and turning the Lock of the Parlour Door, went in; but had not been there above three or four Minutes, before the Gentlewoman, who was behind the Compter, discovered it; for, whether he made more Noise than usual, being in the Dark, or whether her Ears were better than ordinary, she thought she heard somebody walk across the Parlour, and accordingly starting up from behind the Compter, she to the Shop Door, and secured it, shutting Uptebake into the Shop, after which she cried out; Thieves! Thieves!

HEREUPON Lemmox ran out of the Parlour towards the Street, in order to make his Escape, but the Maid coming in at that Instant, met him in the Passage, and did her Endeavour to seize him; in this, however, she was disappointed, for he being too strong for her, threw her down, and so got clear off: He had the Mortification, nevertheless, in the Scuffle, to be obliged to drop all the Things he had taken out of the Parlour, which consisted of a Gold Watch in an Enamell'd Case, a Two-Handle Silver Cup, and some Wearing Apparel.

NOR was this all, for though he got off himself, his Comrade Uptebake was secured, and would probably have come off but scurvily, wherefore Lemmox resolved to strike a bold Stroke for his Deliverance, and accordingly flying with the utmost Expedition, to a House of Call for Persons of his Stamp, he gathered there a strong Posse, armed with Cutlasses and Hangers, with which he returned, just as the Constable was about to put him into a Coach, in order to carry him before a Magistrate, and taking him away Vi & Armis, conveyed him in Triumph to their old Rendezvous in Cross-Lane , in open Defiance of Justice.

THIS narrow Escape, one would have thought, should have induced them to take Warning, und brought them to a better and more serious Way of Thinking, but, alas! they were so hardened in Villainy, as no other Means but putting an End to their Lives, could be supposed effectual for suppressing what further Destruction might but too certainly be apprehended from them.

ABOUT three Months ago, Joseph Uptebake , with his faithful Associates in Iniquity, James Leekey and William Robinson , going out one Evening upon the old-Lay, steered their Course to Porter street , where having fixed their Eye upon a House near Litchfield street, Leekey pushing up the Sash, got into the fore Parlour, and finding there a Basket with wet Linnen therein, he took it out, and handed it to Wm. Robinson,

who was waiting near for that Purpose. This done, not seeing any Thing else he could conveniently carry off, he got out himself, and all three made the best of their Way to their Old Fence, Bess Cane 's, to whom they disposed thereof for a Guinea and a half which they shar'd between them.

ABOUT four or five Weeks after this, one Sunday Night, towards the Hour of Eight, the same hopeful Triumvirate being upon the Tramp, and finding a House in Glassenbury-Court , the Door of which was upon the Latch, Leekey laid hold of that Opportunity to go into the Passage, with Intent to get, if possible, into one of the Parlours, but he found both the Doors fast.

BEING resolved, however, not to be disappointed, he went from thence into the Yard, and taking out a Pane of Glass, opened the Casement of the back Parlour Window, and by the Means of a Ladder that was in the Yard, got into the Room, from whence, in about 7 or 8 Minutes, he made up a Bundle, which he tied up in a Woman's Under-Petticoat, and handed it to Robinson, who waiting in the Yard, and conveyed it to Uptebake, who stood Centinel in the Court: This done, he returned to his Post in the Yard, and in about 4 or 5 Minutes more, both he and Leekey came out together, the latter having another Bundle under his Arm, with which they all three went off undiscovered (and left the Door open) to one Susannah Clarke 's in Drury-Lane , where they opened their Purchase, and found 7 or 8 Shirts, with as many Shifts, Two Men's Coats, a Woman's Coat, some Napkins and Towels, with many other Things of small Value, all of which they sold to Susannah Clarke for 3 l. 13 s. 6 d.

ABOUT three Months before this, the same industrious Three having pick'd up another Companion of the same Stamp, one Robert Grane , otherwise Graham , being all met at John Bradbury 's, in Church Lane , St. Giles's , (one of their old Places of Rendezvous) with Intent to go out together in quest of Booty, steered their Course to Balsover street , near Oxford Market , where observing a Woman come out of a House, about 5 or 6 Doors from the Market, and go into a Chandler's Shop hard by; Leekey went in, she having carelessly left the Door open, and going to the back Parlour, burst open the Door with his Knee; from whence, in less than 7 Minutes, he brought out some Shirts and Shifts, wherewith they made off unperceived to Susannah Clarke 's, to whom they disposed of them for no more that 12 s.

ABOUT a Fortnight after this, the same Four being met at the House of one Mary Lucas 's, where the abovementioned Clarke lodges, went from thence to a Court behind Oxford Chapel ; where finding the Door of the House, about the Middle of the Court, but half shut, Leekey stole in, and forcing open the Door of the back Parlour, proceeded to Rummage about for Booty. Accordingly, in about 3 Minutes, he handed a Box to Robinson, who had followed him into the House, and came out therewith: Soon after which, Leekey having made up a Bundle likewise, crept out undiscovered, and all Four hastened away to Susannah Clarke 's Lodgings, but she was not at Home.

FROM thence, therefore, they made the best of their Way to their old and trusty Friend Bess Cane , who was then removed from her Habitation in Cross-Lane to St. Thomas's-street , St. Giles's , where they found Susannah Clarke also. Now, says Robinson, let us examine into the Fruits of our Labour: Accordingly, he broke open the Box, and found therein a large Silver Spoon, a Tortoiseshell Snuff Box, with a Silver Rim and Hinge, a Coral, and a Necklace; as also about 4 l. in Gold and Silver, mostly half Guineas, with some odd Things of little Value. Having thus examined into the Contents of the Box, Leekey opened his Bundle, and found therein several Sorts of Mens and Womens Cloaths, with some Child-bed Linnen, all of which they sold to Bess Cane for Four Guineas, and then divided the whole Spoil equally amongst them.

THIS ill got Prey, however, was very near causing a Rupture between their hopeful Confederates; for soon after the Commission of this Robbery, the Things were advertised, which occasioned a Discovery, that a Pair of Men's Silver Shoe and Knee Buckles had been fraudulently sunk upon the Co-Partners, and not brought to Account; which heinous and dishonourable Breach of Trust was so highly resented by that Man of strict Honour, William Robinson , that upon the first Notice of it he flew to Leekey's Lodgings, and in a furious Rage, d - n'd him, and swore he was a Villain and a Rogue to offer to sink upon him. In Effect, nobody knows what might have been the Consequence of this Resentment, had not Leekey prudently pacify'd him, and compounded the Felony, by telling

him calmly, Prithee, Will. don't be in such a Passion, for if you will be easy, and not Whiddle, I will give you 6 s. which is half the Money I sold them for. This seasonable Compromise so effectually appeased Robinson, that he immediately answered with an Oath, Aye! now thou art an honest Fellow, and if any one dares say the contrary, d - n my Eyes, I'll blow their Brains out; and accordingly they parted very good Friends.

ABOUT six Weeks after this, Leekey, Grane, and Uptebake, having agreed to go into the Country, set out all Three together on their Journey, and a little beyond Kensington they overtook a Chariot and four Horses, with a Gentleman and a Lady therein, whose Coachman was so very much in Liquor, that instead of being capable of driving, he fell off the Box. Hereupon Grane, with great Presence of Mind, ran and stopt the Horses; upon which the Gentleman asked, if any one of them could undertake to drive him Home to his House on Turnham-Green? Uptebake immediately said, if he pleased he would get into the Box, and would be sure to drive him home very safe.

THE Gentleman agreeing thereto, and as there was a Foot Boy belonging to the Chariot on Horseback, who had dismounted on Purpose to take off the Coachman, and convey him to a Publick House till he had slept himself sober, Leekey rode his Beast, and when he came back, he got up together with Grane behind the Chariot. Upon Uptebake's getting into the Box, the Gentleman ordered him to stop at an Alehouse upon the Road; whither being come, and the Landlord stepping out to see what was wanted, he called him by his Name, and desired he would drive him the rest of the Way, with which he readily comply'd.

HEREUPON Uptebake got down, as did also Grane, from behind the Chariot, and Leekey from the Horse, when the Gentleman gave Uptebake and Grane a Shilling each, but nothing to Leekey. Wherefore, resolving not to be served so, he ran after the Chariot, and being come to the House, saw the Foot Boy take a Bundle out of the Chariot, and carry it into the Hall, and shut the Door after him. Upon this, Leekey knock'd, and a Maid Servant coming to the Gate, demanded what he wanted? He answered, he was one of the young Men who took Care of her Master when his Horses were running away. The Maid immediately went up Stairs with the Message, and acquainting him therewith, he sent down by her a Shilling to him also, but, as she happened not to shut the Door after having delivered it, but went immediately up Stairs again, Leekey, who observed it, thought this too good an Opportunity to be lost, and accordingly stept back into the Hall, and brought away the Bundle, wherewith he returned to his Companions. They highly applauded his Dexterity, and forthwith, they all made the best of their Way to Brentford , where Leekey had an Acquaintance, at whose House they opened the Bundle. They found therein the Bodies of two Holland Shifts, not made up, a Pair of Sleeves not sew'd in; a Pair of Sheets, a Pair of Leather Clogs, Three Napkins, two Play Books, and some other odd Things, all of which Leekey disposed of for One Guinea, to a Person in that Town; and this was the last Robbery, as far as we can find, wherein they were concerned together.

HAVING thus given a succinct Account of the principal Robberies, whereof the beforementioned Arch Villains have been pleased to acknowledge themselves Guilty, we cannot help observing, that, upon the Face of the Whole, it appears evidently, that the Persons injured, may chiefly thank themselves, or their Servants, for the Losses they suffered; since it is very plain, they were owing either to Carelessness, in leaving their Doors upon the Latch, in not pinning their Sash Windows, or, in not shutting their Doors after them, when they went out on an Errand, to any Neighbouring Place: We hope, however, this particular Detail will be a sufficient Warning to them to be upon their Guard for the future.

The following is an Account of the Sheep that were killed by Patrick Bourke , and his Father-in-law George Ellis , Patrick Baite , and Fellomy Connelly .

ABOUT Wednesday and Thursday in November last in the Night, George Ellis , Patrick Bourke , and Fellomy Connelly , went into a Field adjoining to Kensington Gravel Pits , and there they kill'd about Twenty-one Sheep, which belonged to one Mr. John Messenger , and Mr. Benjamin Banks , Senior; and when they had thus

done, they took out the Fat and sold it to one * Samuel Chattle , a Tallow-Chandler in the Borough of Southwark , for about forty Shillings; but there being an Account between Patrick Bourke and him, therefore he paid him but one Pound ten Shillings and ten Pence Half-penny, which Money was equally divided between Patrick Bourke , George Ellis , and Felomy Connelly .

AFTER this, on Saturday the 3d, and Sunday the 4th of November last the same Persons went into a Field near Dulwich in Kent , and there they killed about Twenty-two Sheep, and took the Fat out of them, and amongst the Fat which they sold to the aforesaid Tallow-Chandler, there was several Flesh Kidneys, which he took Notice of, and made a Deduction in the Price.

SOMETIME after, which was in the Month of September last, George Ellis and Patrick Bourke went in the Night time, into a Field near Kensington Gravel Pits , and kill'd twenty Weather Sheep, and they took the Kidney's and Cawl Fat out of them, and they sold the same to the said Tallow-Chandler, but did not strip the Fat from of the said Sheep.

AFTER this, sometime in October last, they all Three went into a Field, in, or near the Parish of Frayant, Barnet , in the County of Middlesex , and there they killed twenty-two Ewes, after they had thus done, they took out their Fat, and sold it to the aforesaid Tallow-Chandler.

ABOUT four Months ago, George Ellis , Patrick Bourke , Patrick Baite , with Fellomy Connelly, went into a Field near Dulwich , in the Night, and there they killed about eleven Sheep, took out their Fat, and brought it to Town, and sold it to their former Friend.

ABOUT the Month of January last, in the Night time, Patrick Bourke , George Ellis , Fellomy Connelly , and Patrick Baite , went into a Field near Paddington : but what was very remarkable, as they were all four going along, they saw Tyburn before them; upon which, George Ellis said to his Son-in-law Patrick Bourke , There is the fatal Place where you and I shall end our Days, if we go on in this manner of Life. Bourke reply'd, No, D - n me if I do, for by Jesu if I am hang'd, I'll be hang'd in mine own Country by St. Patrick. There they killed eleven Weather Sheep, and took the Fat of them, and sold it to the aforesaid Tallow-Chandler; two of the Sheep had Bells about their Necks, which they took off, and threw away.

AFTER this, about the Month of May last, in the Night Time, the same Persons went into a Field near the White Horse , in the Parish of Stepney , and there they killed nine Sheep and two Lambs, and took out their Fat, which they brought to Town, and sold to their Old Customer.

ABOUT nine Weeks ago, Bourke and Ellis went into a Field near Hurlsdon Green , in the Parish of Willsden, in the County of Middlesex , and there killed Ten Ewe Sheep, took out their Fat, and brought it to Town, and sold it to the said Tallow-Chandler. This was the last Fact they committed before they were brought to Justice, which was after this Manner, viz. Bourke having some Words with his Wife, (the same Day that Ann Barefoot and Ann Duck were executed) he beat her in a cruel Manner, which so enraged Ellis her Father, that he went to a Constable, and desired he would take Charge of him, but the Constable would not concern himself with the Matter: Then said Ellis, if you will not take him up for that, I can prove him a great Rogue upon another Account. Bourke happening to hear of his Father-in-Law's Intentions, went immediately before Sir Thomas De Veil , Knt . and gave an Information against him and two others, which Patrick Bait and Fellomy Connelly hearing of, made their Escapes; but Bourke and his Father-in-Law were both committed, and met with their deserved Fate.

THE said Bourke was condemned for the same Crime about Three Years ago at Ely in Huntingtonshire , but the Day before he and two others were to be executed, he made a Breach in the Condemn'd-Hole, whereby he not only escaped himself, but let the other two out; one of whom was for Horse-stealing, and the other an Irishman for Robbing his Master. When he had thus obtained his Liberty, the next Difficulty was how to get his Fetters off, being double iron'd; as he was going along, he spy'd a Miller's Horse, which he mounted, and rode side ways, on Account of his Fetters, to a little Village about 3 * Who is in the New-Goal, and is to be tried the next Assizes, that is to be held for the County of Surrey, for buying the said Fat of Patrick Bourke , George Ellis , and the rest of them.

Miles from Ely, and quitting his Horse got into a Field, where he saw a Man a Harrowing. Here he concealed himself till the Man had left off: When the Man was gone, he got one of the Iron Teeth out of the Harrow, and with that got off his Fetters. Upon this he proceeded directly for London, to his Father-in-Law's George Ellis 's, at the Seven Dials , where his Wife and her Father were both greatly surprized to see him.

HE for some Time after this lived very honest in the Employment of a Labourer ; but afterwards growing weary of his Business, and renewing his Acquaintance with his old Companions, he was led by them to the Commission of those very Crimes, for which he was once before Condemn'd, and now Executed.

HE acknowledged, that he and his Companions have killed One Hundred and Twenty-six Sheep, since the last Time they followed those Courses.

SUCH a profligate Sett of audacious Bloodthirsty, desperate, and harden'd Villains, have of late started up to infest this great City, as make it quite unsafe to walk even in the most public Streets; every one surely will allow, that the apprehending and bringing such Villains to their deserved Punishment, is an Undertaking worthy of the greatest Encouragement, and more especially, when such an Undertaking is attended with the greatest Danger and Hazard.

NO Body has taken more Pains, or run greater Hazards on this Account, than an Officer of this City, (by the Encouragement of the Civil Magistrates) who has twice very near ran the Risque of his Life, once by being shot at in open Day-light, in Drury-Lane , by some of these Ruffians; but escaping that Attempt, and persisting still in his laudable Endeavours to bring them to Justice, seventeen of the most audacious of them, going with their Pistols and Hangers, to a House he was known to frequent, fully determined to Sacrifice him, which has been confessed by Harper the Evidence, now a Prisoner in Woodstreet Compter; but the said Officer fortunately happening not to be there, their Design prov'd abortive. Since therefore, it is evident, from these desperate Attempts, that this vigilant Officer goes hourly in danger of his Life, it is, surely, but fit he should be rewarded according to his Merit, not only in common Justice to him, but as an Encouragement to Others, to follow so laudable an Example; the only likely means to put an End to the wicked Practices of such abandon'd Wretches, and restore Peace and Safety to the Inhabitants of London and Westminster, who are at present deterr'd by the daily numerous Instances of their unprecedented Barbarity, from pursuing their lawful Occasions, even at Hours, that used formerly to be counted very seasonable.

Richard Harper , othewise Daddy, was taken on the last Lord-Mayor's Day in Cheapside , and that Night committed to the Compter, next Day being carried before the sitting Alderman, he was committed to Newgate , where he was put into one of the Cells, and in the Evening, two worthy Magistrates of this City, came to the Press-Yard, and there took his Confession of several Robberies committed by him and his Companions, knowing what Villainies he had been concerned, and sensible his Life was too justly forfeited, unless he could serve his Country, by detecting his wicked Companions, he chose to turn Evidence, and open such a Scene of Villiany committed by him and his Companions, as is scarcely to be parallell'd, and which is as follows, viz.

The following is an Account of the Robberies committed by Thomas Wells , Joseph Field , John Potbury , William Billingsley , and the rest of their Gang.

JOHN Potbury , otherwise Jack the Sailor, James Cole , (not yet taken) and William Harper , having robbed a Gentleman in a Street near Temple-Bar , of a Silver Watch, were pursued very closely, but in the Pursuit fell down, by which Means they escap'd.

AFTER this, Billingsley, otherwise Gugg, John Potbury , Henry Gadd , (the little Boy) otherwise Scampey, William Bristow , otherwise Dilsey, James Roberts , Theophilus Watson , William Harper , with some others (not yet taken) robbed a Gentleman in Bartholomew Fair , Billingsley and Watson held him by the Arms, whilst Potbury pick'd his Pocket of his Watch. The Gentleman making some Resistance, they fell on him with their Bludgeons, and beat him in a cruel Manner. In the Scuffle the Gentleman lost his Stick

with an Ivory crooked Head, and his Hat, both of which James Roberts picked up, and brought to the rest of his Companions. They sold the Hat to Billingsley for 4 s. and the Watch to a Fence, (a Jew in Duke's-Place.) The Money was divided between Ten of them, but there were Eleven in Company when they committed this Robbery, so they sunk upon one of them his Share.

THE next Day William Harper , John Potbury , otherwise Jack the Sailor, William Billingsley , Henry Gadd , (the little Boy) and one more (not yet taken) being afraid to go into the Fair, were apprehensive the Disturbance they made the Night before, would be a Means of some of them being apprehended, therefore by Consent they steer'd their Course up and down the Strand. In their Walks Henry Gadd (the Boy) seeing a Gentleman walking along very pensively, told the rest of the Gang, he had got a Loage, (i. e. a Watch) for he heard the Chain jingle; upon which they followed him, thinking he would soon stop somewhere; as he did not, a Coach happening to come up Essex-street , they intended to have stopped him there; but the Gentleman having some Suspicion of their Intention, ran by the Horses Heads, and they followed him till he came to George's Coffee-House , and there four of them held him, whilst the little Boy Gadd took from him his Gold Watch and Chain. When they had robbed him, he cry'd, That little Boy has got my Watch. On hearing which they all took to their Heels, and got off with their Prey.

SOMETIME after this, William Billingsley , Henry Gadd , (the Boy) John Potbury , James Roberts , William Brister , Theophilus Watson , William Harper , and one more, (not yet taken) were all Drinking at a Publick House in Cross-Lane , from whence they were fetched to rescue one Edward Young , who they were informed was taken up in the City. They all agreed to go immediately into Black Boy Alley , in Chick Lane , to fetch some more of their Accomplices to assist them: And as they were going down Holborn they met some more of their Gang, and acquainted them with their Intentions; but some of them said, They would not hazard their Lives at the Expence of so much Folly. Hereupon Billingsley, Gadd, (the Boy) Potbury, Roberts, Brister, Watson, Harper, and some others who are not yet taken, went into Cheapside , but could not learn any Information where to find their Companion Young; upon which, after many Debates, they all agreed to go the Horns Alehouse in Gutter Lane , and Billingsley swore, that he was the Man that would go in at all Events, which he accordingly did, and called for a Glass of Brandy. At the same Time seeing a Silver Spoon lying upon the Bar, he immediately laid hold of it, and came away with it undiscovered. But not finding Young, they went to Woodstreet Compter , to enquire if he was there, and when they came thither were inform'd he was. Thereupon Potbury went in and spoke to him, and came out to acquaint his Companions that Young was indeed there, and they consulted among themselves, what was the best Method they could take to rescue him. On a long Debate, they at last agreed, that one of them having got the Gate open, six should assist to keep it so, and being provided with Pistols, Cutlasses, and Hangers, the rest of them should fetch him out by Force of Arms; and if any Resistance should be made, they resolved (one and all) to shoot the first Man that opposed 'em. However, after some Contest, it was agreed to postpone this till the next Day, and then attempt the Rescue as he was going to be examined before the sitting Alderman at Guildhall; but differing again in their Opinions, they never executed their Design.

THE same Night they stopt two Gentlemen at the Upper End of Woodstreet ; Jack the Sailor and Billingsley laid hold of one of them, and Wells and Harper seized the other, and while they held them, the little Boy Gadd picked both their Pockets of their Watches, and then made their Escapes The Boy having the 2 Watches, Brister and another (not yet taken) attempted to take them from him, and made such a Noise as brought the whole Gang together, that were separated before, whereupon they all agreed to sell them, which they did, and divided the Money.

THE following Night, ten of them attacked a Servant in Livery at the End of Charter-House-Lane , and took from him a Handkerchief with some Linnen in it, and at the same Time the little Boy pick'd his Pocket of his Watch so dextrously, that the Footman never missed it, and then they made off.

AFTER this Robbery they steered next into Aldersgate street , where they attacked a Gentleman opposite Half Moon Tavern , and robb'd him of his Watch, but he making some Resistance, Potbury knock'd him down, and so got off.

FROM thence they went towards Guildhall, and in Cheapside they attempted to rob several Persons, some of whom escaped by running away, and others by running into Shops; and near the Bottom of King-street meeting a Gentleman, Potbury and Billingsley laid hold of him, whilst little Gadd took his Gold Watch. After this, at the End of Catherine street , they stopt another Person, and took also his Gold Watch, but as they were rifling him, his Hat fell off, which they were for once so honest as to return, wish'd him a good Night, and thereupon they all sheer'd off.

AFTER this they went to Fenchurch street , and there stopped a Gentleman, whilst Potbury robbed him of his Silver Watch; which done, they turned down the first Street they came to, the Gentleman at the same Time following them, crying out, Thieves! Thieves! upon which another came to his Assistance, and laid hold of Field; but his Companions rescued him, and fell on the two Gentlemen with their Bludgeons and Cutlasses; and so they brought him safely off.

FROM thence they went to Bishopsgate street , and there stopped a Gentleman, and while some of them held him, Potbury took from him his Gold Watch: The Gentleman attempting to lay hold of Potbury, and they seeing it, one of them run in between the Gentleman and Potbury, and jostled him that his Hat fell off, upon which one of them took it up, and said, Sir, I am afraid you have got into bad Company, take your Hat, and I would advise you to get off as fast as you can, for Fear of further Mischief. On which the Gentleman made Answer, I am afraid you are a Parcel of Rogues and Thieves; and so he marched off.

THE same Night, in a Street by Bloomsbury-Square , they stopped another Gentleman, and Potbury took his Silver Watch; after which the Gentleman cry'd out, My Wash, my Wash, Murder, Murder! Upon this Potbury, Billingsley, Wells, Harper, and others, fell on him, and cut him with their Hangers, that it was well the Gentleman came off with his Life.

ANOTHER Evening they all agreed to go to Covent-Garden . When they came there they separated themselves under the Piazza, waiting till the Play was done, in order to Pick Pockets. Billingsley being nigh the Playhouse Door, a Soldier, who stood Centry, bid him go about his Business. On which he swore, D - n him, he would not. With that the Soldier said, if he would not, he would Fire at him. He said, Do if you dare, for by G - d if you miss me I'll cut your Head off with my Hanger. With that the Soldier levell'd his Musket and Fired at him, but the Ball missed Billingsley, and unfortunately killed a Chairman, who was waiting there. This was the Chairman who was killed some Months ago, and laid in the Bonehouse belonging to Covent Garden Church.

SOME few Nights after this Murder, James Cole , William Harper , and one more, (not yet taken) went to pick Pockets up and down in the Strand , where they met with several of their Companions upon the same Lay. Two Gentlemen coming along, they attempted to pick their Pockets; upon which the Gentlemen made some Resistance. Whereon some of them drew their Hangers and Cutlasses, and the Gentlemen retired for some Time, but advanced again after with drawn Swords in their Hands: Cole and Harper standing together, the Gentlemen laid hold on Cole, and carried him into a Tavern behind the New Church in the Strand. Several of the Gang hearing of this Event, went with a Design to rescue him; but before they came, the Gentlemen, with some Assistance, had carried him to the Watch House in Strand-Lane, near the Strand , and then they thought it impracticable to get him off.

ABOUT Eleven o'Clock at Night, Field, Billingsley, Wells, Potbury, Gadd, (the little Boy) and several more of the Gang, being drinking at a Publick House, a Council was held concerning the Rescue of Cole, and it was agreed they should put on their Hangers; besides which they took with them likewise Choppers and Pokers, and a Dark Lanthorn, and away they went to the Watch House, and then they fell to breaking it open. In the Interim, some of the Neighbours put their Heads out of their Windows, crying out, Murder! Murder! With that one of them pulled a Pistol out of his Pocket, and fired it amongst them, which made them draw their Heads in: Then they fell to Work again, till they broke the Watch House open, and carried Cole off.

THEY all went one Evening to the Cloysters, and there Billingsley being in Liquor, ran up to a Man to feel if he had a Watch: The Man pushed him from him; with that Billingsley gave

him a Punch in the Face, and afterwards drew his Cutlass and almost cut his Fingers off, upon which the Man cried out, Murder! Thieves! and then they all took to their Heels and made their Escapes.

THE next Evening they went to a Street facing Leicester Fields , facing the Prince's House, where they stopped a Gentleman, and while Billingsley and Field held him, Potbury pick'd his Pocket of a Silver Watch. Hereupon the Gentleman seized Field, on which Potbury, Billingsley, Harper, and several more of the Gang, fell upon the Gentleman with their Bludgeons and Fists, so that if the Gentleman had not released Field, in all Probability they would have murdered him.

FROM thence they went to the Bottom of Long-Acre , where they stopped a Gentleman, and while Billingsley and Wells held him, Potbury pick'd his Pocket of his Gold Watch; on which the Gentleman, and several more, pursued them so closely, crying out Stop Thieves! stop Thieves! that they called out Coach! Coach! to drown the Noise of the Pursuers, and being surprized, some run one Way, and some another, till they were all dispersed, but they all met again at their old Place of Rendezvous in Black Boy Alley , in Chick-Lane .

THE next Day they heard that Country Dick, (who was executed in November last with Ann Duck ) was taken and carried before Sir Thomas De Veil , Knt. and many of them being tossing up for Money in the said Alley, they heard that a Number of Soldiers were coming thither to search; whereupon they made off, some into the Fields, and some elsewhere, but all met again at the same Place at Night. But Field, Potbury, Gadd, (the little Boy) and Harper, (apprehending yet further Danger) went down to Queenhithe , and lay there at a Publick House till the Tide served. From thence they went to Brentford , and continued there two Days, and on the Third returned to their wonted Haunt again, where they were informed that further Search had been made after them, and that they had taken away one Turbet, Thomas Wells , and Henry Gray , which last was sent for a Soldier, but afterwards made his Escape, and Turbet was tried last Sessions, and ordered for Transportation.

WHEN they came into the Neighbourhood of their old Rendezvous, their Friends there entreated them to make off, or they would most certainly be taken: Whereupon they all went away again towards Hackney , and from thence to Old Ford , where they sat drinking at a Publick House till quite Dark. Then they returned to Town, and went to a House in Rosemary Lane , to find out some of their Companions; but not meeting with any of them, they went into Spittlefields , and there lodged till the next Night. From thence they went over Logerhead Fields up Old street , and came down Goswell street , at the End of which Potbury, and the little Boy Gadd, ran away, and left Field and Harper. Field and Harper went to a House in Drury Lane , and lay there about three Nights, and on the Monday Morning hearing there was another Search to be made, Field and Harper dressed themselves immediately, and then ran and hid themselves in the Cock Loft; but not thinking that Place safe enough, they crept through a Hole to hide themselves more securely, and as it happened the Soldiers did not come so high.

THE Morning following, about five o'Clock, Harper having spent all his Money, pawned his Cloaths, and Field seeing his Companions Poverty, left him, and then he was destitute of both Friends and Money, and every House he went into to enquire after his Companions, was afraid of being taken up. About five Days after, as he was drinking at a House in Rosemary-Lane , who should come in but Billingsley, Potbury, and William Norwood , (a Person not yet taken.)

Harper was very glad to see them, and after some Discourse, they asked him if he would turn out with them, to which he consented. Accordingly the next Morning, about five o'Clock, they all got up, and the Reason of this was for Fear any one should see them. From Rosemary-lane they made the best of their Way for Brentford again, where they met with several more of their Companions, but not Field. There being so many of them together, People began to have some Suspicion they were a Parcel of Thieves; whereupon, they observ'd it, and thought it most proper, to make the best of their Way to London , and when they came there they dispersed themselves.

THEY had not been in Town long before Billingsley, Potbury, Wells, Field, and Harper, broke open a House in a Street near Red-Lion sqaure

square, and took away fifty-two Yards of Linnen, Three Silver Spoons, a Punch Ladle, and two Silver Salts. In the Commission of this Robbery they were disturbed (and very narrowly escaped being all taken) by six Soldiers, who pursued and fired at them, but they had the good Fortune to Escape.

WHEN they came to Black Boy Alley , they began to share their Booty; but Billingsley had secreted the Plate, for it is common amongst themselves to play at Rob Thief; however, Field and Potbury detected him in it, and said he was a Rogue to wrong them. He told them he had no such Design, it was done only to try them, whether they knew he had it, for no Man could say, that ever went with him, that he ever sunk upon them.

AFTER this, Field and Billingsley one Evening stopt a Gentleman just by George's Coffee-House , near Temple Bar ; Field pick'd his Pocket, and was taken in the very Fact by the Gentleman. Billingsley followed Field and the Gentleman, to see what he did with him; the Gentleman getting some Persons to his Assistance, carried him to the Watch-House, and afterwards to Sir Thomas De Veil 's, Knt. where he waited to see what would become of him; he had not waited long, before he came out, with six Persons besides himself, with Links, to Guard him to Newgate in a Coach. Billingsley seeing that, immediately makes the best of his Way to Black-Boy-Alley , in Chick Lane , to raise a Posse to rescue him; he got six of his own Gang, and all had got large Broomsticks; just at Holborn Bars they met the Coach, and one of them went to the Coachman and ordered him to stop his Horses, or else he would knock his Brains out, whilst the others got to the Coach-door, and let out their Companion, and carried him off in Triumph to Black-Boy-Alley, in Defiance of Justice. This was about two Years ago, and they always afterwards went with Pistols, Hangers, and Cutlasses, for fear any of the Thief-takers should offer to take them; they generally went in Numbers, sometimes six, and sometimes ten.

SOME few Nights after, being six of them in Company, they attack'd a Man and his Wife betwixt the New-Exchange in the Strand, and Charing-Cross, and bid them Stand; Potbury jstled the Man against the Wall, in the mean Time Field did his Endeavour to pick his Pocket of his Watch; the Man made some Resistance, although he had his Child in his Arms, and for fear the Child should be hurt, he said to his Wife, my Dear take the Child, and was handing it to her, with a Design to give them his Money; when Billingsley imagining by his giving the Child away, that he intended to make his Defence, made a fierce Blow at him with a Bludgeon, which unfortunately fell on the Child and killed it; on which the Woman screaming out, they all took to their Heels, and ran away.

ON Sunday Evening, the Night before their Execution, a Gentleman went to the Press-Yard on Purpose to ask Gadd (the little Boy) some particular Questions, and one of them was, Whether he was one of the Seventeen that went to Copenhagen House on Pretence of getting Mushrooms? He answered, He was, and moreover said, that their real Intentions was to have kill'd Mr. Blewmier, (a Constable belonging to St. James's, Clerkenwell) and one Mr. Foot, (a Headborough belonging to the same Parish, and keeps the Blue Coat-Alehouse just by Clerkenwell Church.) And he further said, that being disappointed, they all came to Town, and went to the Wind-Mill Alehouse in Cow-Cross, arm'd with Pistols, Cutlasses, and Hangers, with a Design to sacrifice Mr. Jones, (the City Marshal) Mr. Boomer, and one Lloyd, (that attends Mr. Jones) which House they knew Mr. Jones was accustomed to frequent. The Gentleman reply'd, suppose Mr. Jones and the two other Persons, had been there, What could you have done. Done, Sir, I could have cut and slash'd away as well as the best of them. The Gentleman was astonished for some Time to hear such an Expression come from the Mouth of a meer Child. He gently reprimanded him, but it had no Effect on him. He seemed entirely ignorant of his unhappy Circumstances, not considering that he was to suffer the next Day. When the Gentleman had done discoursing with him, he was ordered into his Cell again.

THUS we are at length come to the Close of this dismal Scene, more so indeed on many Accounts, than the Details of former Executions.

For, whether we consider the Number of the Malefactors, the Nature of their Crimes, the Age of some of the Offenders, (one particularly, which was a perfect Child) or the Apprehensions into which the Inhabitants of this great City were for some Time thrown, by their Excessive Boldness in committing their Robberies, all wears the Face of Horror and Confusion.

BUT let not the Terror it spreads be Momentary, or as it were Instantaneous, and as short as the Pain these Criminals suffer: No, let it be rather lasting as their Shame: Let it set their Errors in a true Light: Let it mark the Road, and point out the Stages that lead to the Gallows; that poor, easy, illiterate young Fellows, may take Warning from their Fate, and fly from the first Seducements of the Devil; as knowing well, (under his Guidance) they must meet here and hereafter with a melancholly Lodging at their Journey's End.

WE see plainly, that such Practices, how seemingly lucky soever in the first Instances, lead to Penury and Sorrow, instead of Mirth and Plenty: And we as plainly discern, that tho' sometimes Art prevails, and Fraud delivers, yet in the End Ruin certainly attends such Courses, and a just Punishment surely reaches them soon or late.

BUT the Application of the City of London to His Majesty, has brought a new Vigour to the Laws, and set a keener Edge on the Sword of Justice; so that those fatal Amusements of Friends Assistance, and powerful Interpositions for Pardons, are in a Manner quite removed: It is therefore high Time for every Lover of Idleness and Pleasure, to remember, That the only Way now to be safe, is to be honest, as the only Way to remain honest is to shun bad Company, and live in the Fear of GOD. To which, may he grant, these Reflections may contribute!

The following LETTERS were wrote originally in French, by Mr. du Clot, the Valet, who was Executed for robbing his Master, the Hon. Mr. Masham, of a Bank Note of 50 l. and many other Things of considerable Value; we have Translated them into English, for the Satisfaction of our Readers.

SIR,

I HAVE flatter'd myself, till this last Moment, that a Man, who had had the Honour of being your Servant, would not be suffered to be destroyed. Woeful Expectation, for one who has nothing less to hope for, than a most ignominious Death! How is it possible, that your generous Soul, and your charitable Principles, should be deaf to the Entreaties of an unfortunate Man, who had rather have spill'd the last drop of his Blood, than to have betrayed you? and whose only Guilt is, to have given Way to a cursed Inclination for Gaming, which has made him swerve out his Duty. You can do a great deal in my Behalf, Sir, in God's Name, save my unhappy Days. I confess, I am Guilty, but I have not sinn'd by Inclination; have some Compassion for my poor Family, and for me; we shall all pray for ever for your Prosperity and Preservation; and I shall never cease to be the very last Breath of my Life, with all possible Submission, and a dutiful Respect,

SIR,

Your most afflicted Servant,

SULPICE DU CLOT .

MADAM,

YOUR unspeakable Goodness for me hitherto, makes me take the Liberty of imploring the Honour of your Protection. For God's Sake, vouchsafe to grant it, to an unfortunate Servant, who has been drawn to his Ruin, by an Inclination for Gaming; otherwise, he would have always been faithful and honest to his Master. Pray, Madam, let my Tears and my Youth move your Compassion. Shew Mercy to an unhappy Man, and save him from an ignominious Death. Save him a Life which shall be henceforth employed in praying to God for your Prosperity and your Wellfare. Let your Clemency shew the World that no one, who has once had the Honour of being a Servant in your Family, can ever be destroyed, though ever so guilty. But, in whatever Manner you may be pleased to decide of my Fate, which is partly in your Hands, still I shall not cease to be, to the last Breath of my Life, with all possible Gratitude, and the most profound Respect,

MADAM,

Your most humble, Most submissive, and Most afflicted Servant,

SULPICE DU CLOT

London, Dec. 3, 1744.

SIR,

TIS with a Heart penetrated with Grief, and the Image of Death on my Face, that I dare take the Liberty to trouble you for the last time, in order to implore your Clemency in Behalf of an unhappy Servant, who has so greatly offended you, not so much by Inclination, as by his ill Luck, since since I would have always been the most faithful of all Servants, to the best and the most generous of all Masters, if the cursed love of Gaming had not drawn me away. Forgive me, Sir, in the Name of the God of Mercy, as you hope to be forgiven; I humbly ask your Pardon, Sir, with a Heart so full of Grief and Sorrow, that you could not but forgive me, if I could but have the happiness to throw my self at your Feet. The deceitful Hopes, of recovering every Day what I had taken from you, has deluded me, multiplied my Faults, and has ruined me at last. For God's Sake, do not forsake me in my Misfortune. Let my Youth and my Tears excite your Compassion. Save me from an ignominious Death, after having had the Honour of being your Servant, that the Remainder of my Days may be employed in weeping for the Sins I detest, and that I may for ever pray for your Prosperity and Preservation, and publish every where your Goodness to me. Pray, Sir, favour me with your Protection in these my deplorable Circumstances. 'Tis your Protection alone, that can draw me out of the Abyss, wherein my irregular Conduct has precipitated me: vouchsafe to obtain my Reprieve from his Majesty. 'Tis in your Power, Sir, have some Compassion on a poor Servant, whose life is in your Disposal, grant it him out of Charity; your Generosity cannot but do you Honour in the World; the Lord will Reward you for it, and I shall always have as long as I breathe, the deepest Sentiments of the most sincere Gratitude, and of a most profound Respect, being,

SIR,

Your most humble, Most afflicted, and Most submissive Servant,

SULPLICE DU CLOT .

SIR,

TIS with the greatest Grief, that I take the Liberty to implore your Mercy for the last time, beseeching you to cast an Eye of Compassion on my sad and deplorable Condition. The whole Course of my Life shall for the future be employed in praying to God for your own and my Lady's Prosperity. If your Clemency and your Compassion produce a merciful Judgement, all my Relations, (whom I am very sorry to have dishonour'd by my Faults) as well as myself, shall for ever entertain the deepest Sense of Gratitude for the same. I beseech you, Sir, for God's Sake, to cast an Eye of Pity on my most sad Condition; I never would have been guilty of such a Crime to deprive another Person of his Property, in order to enrich myself, and 'twas only the cursed Inclination for Gaming, which has been the Cause of my Ruin and which deluded me with the hopes of being to recover what was lost, and to return it again: how happy should I be, if my Tears could prevail upon you, my Chains, and the Thoughts of an approaching ignominious Death, have already destroyed my Health, and I am half dead in this dark Dungeon. Pray, Sir, have some Consideration for my Youth, and so kind to represent my Case to his Majesty. May Heaven preserve your Health, and pour his Blessings on you, and my Lady. I am with a profound Respect and Submission,

Your most humble, Most obedient, and Most afflicted Servant,

SULPICE DU CLOT .

Newgate , December 17, 1744,

POSTSCRIPT.

HAVING thus finish'd our Account of the notorious Offenders of the last Sessions, we shall next give our Readers the following Narrative of a barbarous Murder perpetrated by Ann Duck , (who was Executed last November) togegether with Elizabeth Nash , otherwise Smith , otherwise Sykes , and Elizabeth Dawney , who used to keep Company with the Evidence Harper, and was Transported about a Year ago.

ONE Evening, about two Years ago, Ann Duck , Elizabeth Nash , and Elizabeth Dawney , being as usual upon the Scout, seeking (in Imitation of their Infernal Master) whom they might devour, and taking their customary Walk down Cow-Cross , happened to meet a Man coming along the Lane, whom they judged fit for their wicked Purpose. Hereupon Bess Nash stept up to him, (the other two standing at some Distance) and asked where he was going? With you, my Dear, said the poor unfortunate Wretch; little dreaming how dear indeed this Meeting would cost him. With all my Heart, Sir, answered she; and so without farther Discourse they jogg'd on together.

FINDING the Bargain was struck, and being resolved to come in for a Share of the Booty, Ann Duck and Eliz. Dawney followed after and overtook them, and asked Bess Nash which Way she was strolling with that Gentleman. Nash immediately answered, I am very glad I have met you, for we were going to your House. This said, they all joined Company together, and went on till they came to White Lyon Court in Turnmill-street , where they carried the unhappy Victim to an empty House.

IN observing this, the poor Creature was somewhat surprized, his Hear isgiving him; and well it had been for him had he taken Warning thereby. Lord bless me (cries he) have you brought me into an empty House? Upon which that Instrument of the Devil, Ann Duck , made Answer directly, That her Sister and she had taken it but the Day before and had not had Time since to bring their Goods in; with which Excuse he seemed to be something better satisfied.

IN short, after some little Conversation had passed, this Wretched Man said to them, My Girls, what shall I treat you with? Oh, Sir, cryes Ann Duck , what pleases you will certainly please us, for we Girls can drink almost any Thing.

WHY then, Ladies, says he, what think you of a Hot Pot? With all our Hearts (continued she) nothing better. Upon which he gave Nash a Shilling to fetch it, as she did, and it was soon gone. He ordered her then to fetch another, which she accordingly did, and Watching their Opportunity whilst that was drinking, they all Three fell on him, and threw him down upon his Back. Which done, Bess Dawney set her Knee against his Throat; Ann Duck sat with her whole Weight upon his Stomach, and Bess Nash kneeled upon his Legs. She then picked his Pocket of Three Guineas and Twelve Shillings; which done, she said to Ann Duck and Bess Dawney , I have spoke with him, meaning, she had got his Money: Whereupon Ann Duck got immedidiately off his Stomach, as did likewise Dawney from his Throat, and at the same Time gave him a Kick on the Head.

Ann Duck then cry'd, D - n the Blood of a Bitch, he is not dead. To which Bess Dawney answered, D - n him but he is, as dead as a Door Nail. God forbid, said Bess Nash , (who it seems by her own Account, was not quite so bloody minded as her Sisters in Iniquity) wherefore did you kill the Man? You should not have done so. To which Ann Duck answered, without any Concern - d d - n you, what else did you bring for, but first to rob, and then murder him.

WHEREUPON Bess Nash replyed, By G - d, we shall all be jamm'd *: Which making Bess Dawney apprehensive she might blab out something of it, she cryed, D - n your E - s, don't Whiddle †, for if you do we certainly shall.

AFTER having thus perpetrated this cruel and inhuman Murder, in cold Blood, and without any Provocation, on a Man whose Good Nature would have moved any but Fiends, they all adjourned to the House of Ann Collier , who was tried last Sessions but acquitted, and called for half a Pint of Gin. Having drank this they went up Stairs to Snack the Cole, and shar'd equally One Pounds Five Shillings each; which done, they came down again, and Ann Collier asked them where they had been.

Ann Duck , who was never at a Loss for a Lie, answered, They had been at a House in Whitelyon court with a Man whom Bess Nash had pick'd up, for they could not prevail on him to come to hers. For how much have you flung him, says Collier. About Fifteen Shillings, answered Duck, which made Collier very angry they did not bring him to her House. D - n your E - s, said she, you might have brought him to me, for I go under the Scandal of being a Lock and a Fence, and keeping a House of ill Fame, through such Whores and B - s as you, and all to no Purpose; so pray turn our (continues she) and fetch in some Culls, for I cannot afford to harbour you, unless you bring me in the Pece.

SO they all went from thence into Chick-lane , where they consulted how they should dispose of the murdered Carcase. If you will both go with me (says Duck to her Companions) as it is now quite dark, (it being then between Ten and Eleven o'Clock) we will move it ou of the empty House to the next Door, and lay it under the Window.

THIS Proposal was immediately agreed to, and put in Execution; and accordingly the Body was there found, and no body appearing to own it, was buried at the Parish of St. Sepulchre's, Middlesex, nor was it ever known to this Day who the murder'd Person was. In Effect, it is a Question whether even thus much had ever come to Light, had not Bess Nash , who is now in Clerkenwell Bridewell , made this Confession.

* That is, Hang'd.

† That is, Impeach.

FINIS.

