THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THOMAS PINKS , Who was Executed at TYBURN , On FRIDAY the 7th of May, 1742.

BEING THE THIRD EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Sir Robert Godschall , Knt .

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

Number III. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Honourable Sir ROBERT GODSCHALL , Knt. Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice PARKER; the Hon. Mr. Justice Wright; the Hon. Mr. Baron ABNEY; the Hon. Sir JOHN STRANGE , Knt. Recorder , and the Rt. Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and Others, his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London; and Justices of Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Friday the 15th, Saturday the 16th, Monday the 18th, and Tuesday the 19th of January, 1741\1742, in the 15th Year of His Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Thomas Pinks , Stephen Jenkyns , Joseph Pig , Jesse Welden , and Christopher Jordan , and two Women, viz. Eleanor Brown and Margaret Lumley ; and at the Sessions the February following, five more Men, viz. Alexander Afflack , John Lowden , Robert Lloyd , William Plummer , and Morgan or Martin Nowland , were by their different Juries found Guilty of Capital Crimes, and sentenced to die.

Joseph Pig , Eleanor Brown and Margaret Lumley , afterwards received His Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. And,

Stephen Jenkyns , Christopher Jordan , Alexander Afflack , John Lowden , Robert Lloyd , William Plummer , and Morgan or Martin Nowland , were Executed Wednesday April the 7th, 1742.

Thomas Pinks was to have been Executed with the above Malefactors, but in a surprising Manner made his Escape, and being afterwards retaken, and carried down to the Sessions House , the Court sentenced him to be Executed on Friday May the 7th.

While he was under Condemnation, before he made his Escape, he had the same Instructions in common with the Rest of his Fellow-Prisoners, and seemed very devout and serious, and received the Blessed Sacrament with Afflack, Lowden, and the other Malefactors, who were afterwards Executed; and since his being retaken, he has behav'd in a becoming devout and serious Manner.

As he seemed to be a Man of some Capacity, I took Occasion the stronger to represent to him how much inconsistent, as well as directly contrary to the express Commands of Almighty God, and the Human Laws of Man, it was, to invade our Neighbour's Property; Thou shalt not steal, says the 8th Commandment, nor shalt thou covet thy Neighbour's Goods, says the 10th; he who covets only, is guilty of a Breach of this last Commandment, but he who actually steals, is much more guilty, and must surely expect a future Punishment, adequate to his Guilt, unless by a sincere and penitential humbling himself before an offended God, and emploring Mercy and Forgiveness for his Sins and Wickedness, he should obtain Pardon; Seek ye the Lord (says the Prophet Isaiah) while he may be found, call upon him while he is near; let the Wicked forsake his Way, and the unrighteous Man his Thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord, and he will have Mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly Pardon. From this, and other such Texts of Scripture, I endeavour'd to exhort him to a sincere and true Repentance, as well as comfort him in Hopes of a future Salvation. I also instructed him in the Nature and End of our Lord's Supper, that he might become a worthy Partaker thereof, and thereby prepare himself for that Change which he must so soon Experience. During the whole Time of his Confinement, both before his Escape, and after, he ever seem'd serious and Devout, tho' his Sincerity might be much doubted, as his Thoughts were continually employed about making his Escape, which he effected in a Manner almost beyond Thought; the falling-down the Gutter almost ten Feet high, was attended with so much Danger, that 'twas next to a Miracle that he had not fallen into the Press-Yard, and dash'd out his Brains.

Thomas Pinks was indicted with Stephen Jenkyns , for assaulting Francis Simmonds on the King's Highway, in the Parish of St. Leonard, Shoreditch , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him 36 Fowls, value 2 l. 10 s. a Sack, value 1 s. a Pair of Hawking Bags, value 9 d. a Knife, value 2 d. and 1 s. 3 d. the Goods and Money of the said Simmonds, and a Guinea and 3 l. the Money of Persons unknown. December the 1st, both Guilty. Death. Jenkyns was Executed April the 7th, 1742.

Thomas Pinks , about 28 Years of Age, was born near Birmingham , of very honest Parents, who gave him a good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Accounts, as well as instructed him in the Principles and Duties of the Christian Religion.

When of Age, he was bound an Apprentice to his Father, a House-Carpenter , with whom he serv'd-out his Time faithfully and honestly, and afterwards work'd Journey-Work , and being an ingenious young Fellow, was much respected.

But longing to see London , and thinking to better himself in that Centre of Trade and Commerce, he came up to Town, serv'd as a Journey-Man House-Carpenter , and was in constant Employment for one Master, who was very Kind to him.

He married a Wife, by whom he had three Children, two of which are now living, for whom, by his Care and Industry, he took Care to provide as became a Husband and a Father, went constantly to Church, frequently received the Holy Sacrament, and acted with Honesty and Integrity; 'till he became acquainted with loose idle Company, who hurried him on to commit that Crime for which deservedly he lost his Life.

He solemnly protested, that this was the very first Crime of this Nature he ever was guilty of, and seem'd to repent sincerely of the Sin of Drunkenness, which was the Forerunner of his Misfortune, and prov'd his fatal Destruction.

Thursday March the 25th, about Eight in the Morning, as the Keepers were busy opening the Cells, to furnish the Criminals with Necessaries, Pinks observing, while their Backs were turn'd, the Door of the Cells, leading into the Press-Yard, open, he slipp'd out, and went up the Stairs leading to the Chappel undisturb'd, and wrench'd out of the Window, at the Top, one of the small Iron Bars, and fastening a Piece of Cord to the other Bar, he dropt down between nine and ten Foot into the Gutter, going along the Top of the Press-Yard Wall, from whence he climb'd to the Roof of the Press-Yard, and scrambled from House to House, till he got to the East-End of Phoenix-Court , facing Wawick-Lane , and went into a Garret-Window, so down Stairs, through a Room, where an old Woman was sitting, who was so surpriz'd at seeing him, that she could not speak, and he went quietly out at the Street-Door, and got clear off, went directly to his Wife, and then visited several other Friends in Town, among whom he raised about five Shil

lings, with the Help of which he travelled towards Birmingham , the Place of his Nativity, where every-body made him welcome, his Friends and Relations were all very kind to him, he walk'd the Streets publickly, and kept Company with all his old Acquaintance, who supply'd him generously with Money, and offered to set him up in his own Trade, if he would stay among 'em.

But he refused all their kind Offers, London was still in his Head, and back he came, and skulk'd about for some Days, and met several of his old Companions, with one of whom he made an Agreement to go out upon the Highway, which they were to do the following Night.

Instead of which, his Partner in Iniquity, came directly to Mr. Ackerman at Newgate, and told him where Pinks was.

Mr. Ackerman immediately took Horse, and according to his Directions, found Pinks sleeping near the Gibbet on Stamford-Hill .

He had a large Pistol in his Bosom; when they wak'd him, he took to his Heels, and ran a Mile before they could overtake him, and ran into a House at Newington , and up Stairs, and his Pursuers after him, where they found him under a Feather-Bed, and fetter'd his Hands, and brought him safe to Newgate , Sunday April the 28th, where he was closely confin'd in one of the Cells, laden with heavy Irons, and stapled down to the Floor, till Sessions Time came, when he was brought down, and a Rule of Court made for his Execution, Friday May the 7th.

Robert Rhodes convicted for Forgery, who was confined in the next Cell to Pinks, seeing Pinks stand at his Cell Door, while the Keepers were busy in ordering the Prisoners to their proper Places, stept up to him, and whispered him, that he was provided with Implements and Tools proper to make an Escape, if he would lend him his Assistance.

Pinks bid him break a Way through into his Cell, and he would take Care of the rest.

Accordingly Sunday Night April the 25th, Rhodes went to work, and saw'd through the Tim

ber-Work, tho' set with Iron Nails as thick as possible, and got out two Bricks of the Party Wall, and with a little more Work would have got through to Pinks, who said, that Rhodes was a Bungler, and his Tools were bad, and that he could have done as much in half an Hour, as Rhodes had been five or six Hours about; however, they were luckily discovered, and their Designs frustrated.

Pinks behaved very well, both before his Escape, and since, tho' he seemed to be rather too indifferent about Death, than a Person in his Circumstances ought to have been.

He was very desirous to see his Wife before he died, which was granted him.

He believed in Christ the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THOMAS PINKS received the Holy Sacrament in the Morning very devoutly; though I cannot help observing, that he did not appear to be so deeply concerned, as I could have wished a Person in his Circumstances, just going to launch into Eternity, should be; though he joined in Prayers with a seeming Fervency.

He was carried to the Place of Execution in a Cart, being strongly Guarded by a great Number of Sheriff's Officers, for Fear of a Rescue; which there was some Reason to apprehend might be attempted, as it was observable there were a great Number of stout young Fellows pressing pretty near the Cart; so that the Officers were obliged to exert themselves, to keep them off.

But they declaring they had no other Intention, than to take Care of the Body, for Christian Burial, which

being promised them, they Attended to the Gallows with much Decency and Quietness.

When he came to Tyburn , he appeared quite undisturbed, and without any the least seeming Concern whatever.

He comply'd with Prayers and singing of Psalms, in a very Decent Manner; and confessed the Robbery, and owned the Justness of his Sentence.

He was strongly Handcuff'd when he came out of Newgate , at which he seemed a little concerned; and, holding up his Hands to me, shook his Head.

He took his Leave of his Brothers with an Intrepidity beyond Imagination. Notwithstanding they were drowned in Tears, he seemed quite immoveable and unconcerned, and only desired they would recommend his Love to his Sister.

He went off the Stage, saying, The Lord have Mercy on me, Lord Jesus receive my Spirit, &c.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

It being customary for Persons under my unhappy Circumstances, to leave some ACCOUNT of themselves behind them, in order to deter others from following the like Practices, the following is as particular a NARRATIVE, as my present unfortunate Scituation suffers me to give.

I AM now about 28 Years of Age, and was born at Hampton-Harder , near Birmingham , of Parents who gave me as good an Education as their Circumstances would admit. I was brought up at a Free-School, of which one Mr. Harding was Master, and where I continued 'till I arriv'd to the twelfth Year of my Age.

I then put myself Apprentice to my Father, who was a Carpenter and Joiner , and liv'd in very good Repute. I serv'd him two Years very honestly, and then went to one Collins, who follow'd the same Business, and with whom I staid about a Year and half. From thence I went to Worcester , where I work'd for

Mr. Read about a Quarter of a Year, and then having a natural Inclination to Rambling, I left his Service, and came to London , and work'd for the Lord Northampton in Grosvenor-Square , to whom I was introduc'd by one Nixon, I at that Time lodging at the Three-Kings in Mount-Street .

In this Business I continued about a Year and half, and then it was my Misfortune, by some Means or other, to be depriv'd of my Employment here; and then work'd at the Seven-Dials for one Mr. Stollard, who kept the Maiden-Head-Inn in Diet-Street; I work'd with him two Years, and faithfully discharg'd the Trust repos'd in me.

The next Person I work'd for was Mr. Mason at Newington-Green , whom I serv'd a considerable Time, and then built several Houses at the Back of Old-Street-Church , at my own Expence, for one Clark, a Pawnbroker in Featherstone-Street ; but not being able to get my Money of him, I ran pretty much behind Hand, and was oblig'd for a Livelihood to get Work as I could.

After this, I work'd about half a Year for one Mr. Lacey, in Berwick-Street , Soho-Square , and for several others at Times, whose Names I can't at present recollect.

One Day having been drinking pretty freely, and having an Inclination to be in the Service, I enter'd myself a Soldier in my Lord Beauclerc's Regiment; after which, I desir'd my Officers to give me the next Day to myself, that I might overlook some Men who were at Work for me; they promis'd that I should have it according to my Desire, but when the Day came, they refus'd to let me have it, and denied that they had made me any such Promise, at the same Time informing me, that I must attend in Hyde-Park .

However, as they had falsified their Word to me, I thought there was no great Necessity for my obeying their Orders, and therefore absented myself from them, and went down to Gravesend , where I staid about a Month, and then came to Town, and offer'd myself voluntarily to them again, and was well receiv'd, and without the least bad Usage or giving any Cause of Complaint.

When I first enter'd into the Service, Dean (upon whose Evidence I was convicted) happen'd to be drinking at the Horns , a Publick-House in Shoreditch ; I was there at the same Time, and being pretty full of Liquor, he was diverting the Company with a Song, and so by Degrees, we became pretty well acquaintted.

Some Time afterwards, Dean got acquainted with Overton, and they us'd to go out together upon illicit Practices; but I never was made sensible of the Particulars.

I should have mention'd before, that about 5 or 6 Years ago, I married my Wife, by whom I have had three Children, two of whom are now living, and took a House in a Place call'd the Curtain , by Holywell-Mount , near King-John's Palace .

I staid there about three Quarters of a Year, and kept a Sort of Lodging-House , and entertain'd my Friend Dean, who always was a loose idle Fellow, and who has been the chief Cause of my being under these Misfortunes.

When I liv'd in the Curtain , my Landlord did not care to trust me for the Payment of my Rent Quarterly, as is commonly done, therefore I agreed to pay him four Shillings and Sixpence per Week, which Agreement I always perform'd.

Dean living in my House, and I working at that Time for Mr. Collet, in the Bricklayers and Carpenters Business , I got him employ'd as a Labourer; but he had no great Inclination for Work, chusing rather to bear with numerous Inconveniencies, than apply himself to any settled Employment.

Some Time afterwards, I entertain'd Overton as a Lodger; his Business was to sell old Brass and old Cloaths about the Streets in the Day Time, but the Evenings (being most suitable to their bad Purposes) were employ'd by them in raising Contributions on the Road, and I have been led into the Secret of a great many Robberies which they have committed.

One Night I was drinking with Dean, Overton and Jenkyns, and when it was twelve o'Clock, and we were pretty well loaden with Liquor, Dean and Overton left us: Jenkyns and I in a short Time follow'd them, designing to go Home, but in our Way, we met with Dean and Overton again.

We not being satisfied with what we had been drinking before, agreed to go to the Bishop Blaze in Shoreditch , to get some Beer; but the People of that House being a Bed. I was over persuaded by them, to attend them to the Black Horse in Kingsland Road ; Jenkyns and myself not suspecting that they were going upon any bad Design, but as we came to the Drapers Almshouses we met a Man: Dean pulled out a Pistol from his Bosom; he had two, and Overton one.

Dean clapp'd one Pistol to the Man's Breast, to make him deliver his Money.

The Man cry'd very much, and said he was Poor, that his Wife was Sick at London, and that he had been to Hartford to get something for her Subsistance.

Notwithstanding all the Intreaties the Man made use of, they were sufficient Proof against them, and rifled the Man of all he had about him, which amounted to no more than two Shillings; and threaten'd to blow his Brains out if he made the least Resistance.

I begg'd of them to consider the poor Man's Circumstances, but my Request to them had little Effect, and I had then one Shilling and Twopence in my Pocket, which I freely gave the Man, in some Measure to compensate his Loss.

After this Transaction, we went forwards to the Black Horse , but the People being a Bed there, Dean went to a Hedge, and cut a Couple of Twigs, which he broke in Halves, and told us, we must draw Cuts who should attack the next Person that pass'd.

It came to my Lot to be the first Person who was to put this Project in Execution, and we went staggering along, 'till we met a Higler on Horseback.

I seem'd a little unwilling to attack a Horseman, but they insisting upon my going up to him, I took hold of the Horse's Bridle and stopp'd him.

I led him through a Gateway into a Field; it was between One and Two o'Clock, and very dark, so that I should not have been able to distinguish whether the Person was an old or a young Man, if I had seen him five thousand Times.

Dean and Overton were upon the Watch, while we were about this Man.

I search'd his Pockets, and Jenkyns stood over him with a Pistol, loaded with tenpenny Nails.

The Higler begg'd of us not to take his Fowls, upon which Jenkyns swore he would shoot him, and I was afraid he might do it without any Design, and so I took the Pistol from him, and shook out

the Priming, and return'd it to him again.

The Man still continued interceeding for his Fowls, upon which Jenkyns gave him a Blow on the Shoulders, and then I took the Pistol from him entirely, because he should not hurt him. I then search'd his Pockets, and took from him a Shilling, a Halfpenny, and a Farthing, and likewise a brass Porto-Bello Medal.

Then we cut the Hampers down, and took out two and twenty Fowls, and put them into a Sack that covered the Hamper. Upon searching the Hampers further, we found a small Pair of Wallets among the Straw. The Higler told us we stopped him at a wrong Time, for he had got no Money; but if we would let him go to Market and sell his Fowls, we might have his Money as he came back. Jenkins then swore he would knock him on the Head if he did not tell where the Money was; upon which the old Man being frighted, told us there were forty Shillings in the Wallets abovementioned; so I put them into the Bag with the Fowls, and we all came away together.

When we came Home, I took the Bag from Jenkins, to whom I had delivered it to carry, and turned all the Fowls out upon the Floor, and we lik'd them very well, being all ready pick'd to our Hands; but when we came to look in the Wallet for the forty Shillings, we were extreamly surprized and disappointed, to find nothing in them but a Piece of brown Bread, and a Piece of Cheese.

We then shared the Money we had taken that Night; and after we had looked out four of the Fowls for our own Eating, we computed that the Remainder would fetch a Shilling a-piece one with another, and they were accordingly sold by Jenkin's Wife and Overton, who were used to that Business; and the Money was shared equally among us.

When I came to be perfectly sober, after this Enterprize, I reflected upon what I had been doing, and should have been glad, could I have recalled it; but being afraid to stay in Town, I bought a Horse for twenty-seven Shillings, and went into the Country to sell Fish ; but not being easy to be so far from my Wife and Children, I came to Town again.

I had forgot to mention, that one Haines had taken some Money from me, and while I was out of Town, he heard of my being concerned in robbing the Higler, and came to my Wife, and told her, if I would come to him, I might have my Money again; he thinking by that Means to decoy me to his House, and secure me. But, however, he was early enough in his Intelligence to take

me the Morning after I came to Town.

He took me to his House, where I confessed every Thing, in Hopes of being admitted an Evidence against my Companions; but notwithstanding he promised that I should receive Favour, Dean, by the Intercession of his Friends, was accepted of, and I committed in order to take my Trial, and was at the ensuing Sessions capitally convicted.

After I had received Sentence of Death, having lost all Hopes of receiving any Mercy in this World, my Thoughts, which ought to have been at that Time otherwise employed, were taken up in meditating my Escape from this Place, and for that Purpose I had, when I was up at Chapel, been looking eight or nine Days for a Place to get out at.

Accordingly, on the 25th of March, about Eight o'Clock, the Cells being unlocked in order to serve the Prisoners with Bread and other Necessaries, I asked Leave to go to the Vault, which was readily granted.

I then observed the Keeper go up Stairs, to serve the People in the middle Teir, and thought that a proper Opportunity to put my Design in Execution: I therefore, instead of returning to my Cell again (as the Keeper I suppose expected I would) slipped out of the Passage, and ran up Stairs into the Chapel.

Having got thus far, I pulled out a Rail of the Table in the Chapel, with which I wrenched a Bar out of the Window, and then jumped down the Height of about Nine Feet into the Gutter, which is about a Foot wide, so that if I had slipped an Inch aside, I must inevitably have fallen into the Press-Yard, and been dashed to Pieces, but I fell long Ways in the Gutter without the least Hurt.

After this I got up by the Side of the Roof, and ran along the Tops of the Houses, till I came to a Pair of Leads, where there was a Door which opened into a House. I went in there, and first through a Room full of Goods, and then into another, where there was a Man a-bed: I being apprehensive he might take Notice of me, thought it the most prudent Method to go back again.

Accordingly I ran farther along, till I came to a House where I saw the Carpenters had been putting new Muntings in. This induced me to believe it was an empty House; so I got down thro' there, and from thence went into Warwick-Lane , and so among my Friends in Shoreditch directly.

Not thinking myself safe here, I went directly for Bethnal-Green , and sent for my Wife, and she came to me. We

staid there till Evening, and then I set out for St. Alban's , from whence I went to Birmingham , where I staid about three or four Days, and thinking it not convenient for a Person in my Scituation to take his Abode in any particular Place, I set out from thence for Worcester .

From hence I went to Hereford , being supported all the Way by the kind Contributions of my Friends.

I then went to Hemstead , and from thence to Ludlow , where I might have had Employment; but my Heart being in London , with my Wife and Children, and having changed my Name to Robert George , which was my Mother's Maiden Name, I set out for London , intending to return to Ludlow , and carry my Family with me.

Accordingly I came to London , and went to see my Wife, who instead of condoling with me on Account of my Misfortunes, told me, she never desired to see me any more.

This certainly cut me to the Heart, to see myself slighted and neglected by one, who ought, by all the Ties both human and divine, to have consulted my Happiness and Interest.

Being in this Scituation, and deprived of all the Comfort I expected in seeing my Family here, I was at a Loss what to do; at last I was determined to go into the Country again, and acquainted a Man, whom I took to be my Friend, with my Design.

He seemed to express the utmost Uneasiness for me, least I should be retaken, and promised (with an Appearance of Fairness) if I would go into the Country, he would see me 20 or 30 Miles on the Way.

I had just heard that there were People in Pursuit of me, and who were drinking at a Public House; I therefore gave him Three Half-pence, to go and join their Company, and observe their Motions. He accordingly went, and I, in the mean Time, laid myself down under a Hayrick, and went to sleep.

When I wak'd, I observed some People coming towards me, and among them my Friend. This gave me some Reason to suspect he had betrayed his Trust. Upon which, the only Course I had now left, was to endeavour to run, and so get out of the Hands of my Pursuers.

I ran about a Mile, from Standford-Hill Turnpike , to the Middle of Church-Lane ; in my Way breaking down above Twenty Garden Gates, which obstructed my Passage, not thinking that that at the same Time I made the Way clear for those who pursued me. But not being able to continue running fast enough, I observed a Door open, and the

Gentlewoman of the House gave me Leave to come in.

I ran up Stairs immediately into a Room, upon which the Maid locked me in, and threw the Key of the Door out at the Window to my Pursuers.

Upon that Account not thinking myself safe here, I got out of the Window, and ran about the Tiles, where they could not follow me; and then I got in at another Window, in another Part of the Roof.

The House being beset, I had little Hopes of getting off till they were gone. Upon which I laid myself between the Bed and the Sacking, where I continued half an Hour before they could find me, they having searched all the House over without Effect. But at last I was taken, and again conveyed to Newgate , and now must suffer an ignominious Death.

Under these miserable Circumstances in which I am involved, the great and only Consolation to me is, that the Hardships I endure here, will have a Period, and that though unfortunate in this Life, I have Reason to hope for Happiness in another.

The only Thing which aggravates my Misfortunes, and cuts me to the Soul every Time I think of it, is, that I must leave my two Children to the Care of a Wife, who has, by her Treatment of me, shewn the little Regard she bears to them.

I heartily forgive her for not visiting me here; I should be glad to impute it to any thing else but her Neglect and Indifference.

For my own Part, I desire not to live, as Ingratitude, and all its attendant Vices, has taken its Residence among my dearest Friends; but - my Children! - were it not for them, if I could be let out at the Gate this Moment, I would turn in again, and readily suffer the Death appointed for me by the Law; but they are my Care and Concern, tho' I fear now they will be inevitably ruin'd.

I have a long Time been designing (and had Life permitted, could have brought it to Perfection) a Ship which would sail on the Land, in the same Manner as a common Sloop on the Water, and carry any Weight.

It must be done by Strength of the Air, drawing through Flews, that shall draw, the same as a Smoak-Jack in a Chimney.

It must go upon three Wheels, one Wheel before, and guided like the Stern of a Ship, and may be worked by one Man.

I had likewise contrived a Horse in the same Manner, to carry a Man on the Road; but except this was managed with great Care, there would be some Danger of its overturning.

Tho. Pinks .

The following is an Exact COPY of a LETTER, which was sent to the above Person.

Dear Brother,

" THIS with my kind Loufe (Love) " to you, and to let you know, " there is no Dependances on Pertisiones (Petitions) for your Life, but " make your Pease (Peace) with God, " for the Sake of your Soul.

" We have tried all Fronds (Friends) " but to no Porpose, so I hope for the " Sake of your Soul, you will be sattisfyed to Day. As for my Part you " are welcome to be brought to my " House and bured from thens.

" So deir Brother, make yourself esey " at your Deth, for Man can die but " once. So dear Brother, I hope you " will be so good as to send your Coat " and Wig to your Brother, which will " serve you as much as lies in my Power. " From,

Your Brother.

JOSEPH PINKS .

ADVERTISEMENT.

This Day is Publish'd,

In Four neat Pocket Volumes, Printed on a good Letter and fine Paper, Price Bound 12 s. The Second Edition, (with very large Additions, of the most remarkable Trials, down to the present Time) of

SELECT Trials at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey for Murder, Robberies, Rapes, Coining, Sodomy, Frauds and other Offences; chiefly transcribed from Notes taken in Court. To which are added (not to be met with in any other Collection) Genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts.

Among others are the following:

MURDER. Sarah Malcolm , George Price , James Hall , Charles Mechlin , Major Oneby, Lewis Houssart , Catherine Hayes , Richard Savage , Capt . John Jane , Capt . Stanley, James Clough , and others.

PRIVATELY STEALING. Patrick Gaffney , Phillis Noble , Jonathan Wild , Sir Charles Burton , &c.

HIGHWAY. Hawkins and Simpson, Spiggot that bore 350 lb. wt. on his Breast, William Gordon , William Wreathock , Thomas Carr , Elizabeth Adams , William Barkwith , Jenny Diver , James Dalton , &c.

RAPES and Attempts to RAVISH. Col . Francis Chartres , Esq ; William West , Adam White , William Robbins , Arthur Gray , &c.

SODOMY and SODOMITICAL Practices. George Duffus , John Dicks , George Kedger , Thomas Wright , Charles Hitchin , at that Time was City-Marshal , Margaret Clap , &c.

FORGERY. William Hales , Parson Kinnersley, William Newington , Richard Brabant , &c.

Printed by John Applebee , and Sold by J. Hodges, at the Looking-Glass, over-against St. Magnus-Church, London-Bridge.

N. B. These Trials are not only necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of Indictments, and other Persons concerned in Prosecutions, &c. but are useful and entertaining to the generality of Readers, containing more in Quantity as well as Cheaper than any Thing of this Kind yet published.

FINIS.

In a few Days will be Published,

(Price Six Shillings)

DE JURE MARITIMO ET NAVALI: Or, A Treatise of AFFAIRS MARITIME and of COMMERCE. In Three Books.

By CHARLES MOLLOY , late Barrister at Law .

The Eighth Edition, with many valuable Additions.

Printed for John Walthoe over-against the Royal-Exhange in Cornhill .

Just Publish'd.

A NEW EDITION, (Price Sixpence.)

(In which the Legal Distinction of Murther and Manslaughter, with all the Learning on the famous Statute of Stabbing, are fully set forth,) of

The TRIAL of WILLIAM CHETWYND , Gent . at the Sessions-House in the Old-Baily , on Thursday the 13th of October, for the Murder of his School-Fellow Mr. THOMAS RICKETTS , on Three Indictments; together with the Councils Arguments on both Sides, and the Cases by them cited, set forth at large.

N. B. There is a Copy of the Special Verdict which is to be argued by the Judges.

Printed and Sold by M. Cooper, in Pater noster-Row.

For whom is also Printed, Price One Shilling,

The TRIAL of JAMES ANNESLEY , Labourer , at the Sessions-House in the Old Bailey , July 15, 1742. before the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Baron Parker, &c for the Murder of Thomas Egglestone , on Three Indictments; viz. At Common Law, on the Coroner's Inquisition, and on the Black Act.

' My Lord, I observe that I am indicted by ' the Name of James Annesley , Labourer , the ' lowest Addition my Enemies could possibly ' make use of; but though I claim to be ' Earl of Anglesea, and a Peer of this Realm , ' I submit to plead Not Guilty to this Indictment, and put myself immediately upon my ' Country, conscious of my own Innocence, ' and impatient to be acquitted even of the ' Imputation of a Crime so unbecoming the ' Dignity I claim.'

Mr Annesley's Speech, on being arraign'd.

Just Publish'd.

The Third Edition, with Additions, of

A complete Collection of STATE-TRIALS, and Proceedings for High-Treason, and other Crimes and Misdemeanors: From the Reign of King Richard II. to the Reign of his present Majesty King George II. In Six Volumes, Folio. Printed for J. Walthoe, over-against the Royal-Exchange in Cornhill.

For whom also are printed,

I. The NATIONAL MERCHANT; or Discourses on Commerce and Colonies: Being an Essay for regulating and improving the Trade and Plantations of Great-Britain. By Mr Bennet. Price Two Shillings.

II. A SURVEY of TRADE. In Four Parts. 1. The great Advantages of Trade in general, and the particular Influence of it on Great-Britain. 2. The Marks of a Beneficial Trade, and the Nature of our Commerce in its several Branches; with an Examination of some Notions generally received, of the Prejudices we suffer by other Nations in Trade. 3. The great Advantages of our Colonies and Plantations to Great-Britain and our Interest in preserving and encouraging them, and how they may be further improved. 4. Some Cnnsiderations on the Disadvantages our Trade at present labours under, and for the Recovery and Enlargement of it, &c. By W. Wood, Esq;

III. A Collection of Papers relating to the East India Trade; Wherein are shewn the Disadvantages to a Nation by confining any Trade to a Corporation with a Joint Stock. To which is added, The Scheme presented to the House of Commons for laying the Trade of the East Indies free and open to all his Majesty's Subjects; with the several Observations thereupon. Price 1 s. 6 d.

IV. A General Treatise of Naval Trade and Commerce as founded on the Laws and Statutes of this Realm: In which those relating to Letters of Marque, Reprizals, and of Restitution, Privateers, Prizes, Convoys, Cruisers, and every other Branch of Trade Foreign and Domestic, are particularly considered; likewise the Opinions of the most eminent Connsel upon various important Points, relating to Customs and English Ships, Prizes, and other Articles of Mercantile Business. In two Volumes. Price 10 s.

