THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Friday the 13th Day of March, 1712/1713.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 25th, 26th, and 27th Days of February 1712/1713, Five Persons, viz. three Men, and two Women, being Try'd for, and Convicted of Murder, and other Capital Crimes, receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly: But Three of them having afterwards obtain'd a Gracious Reprieve, (which I wish they may take Care to improve, as they ought to do, to the Glory of GOD) Two only are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them (twice every Day) brought up to the Chapel of Newgate, where I pray'd with them, and read and expounded the Word of GOD; drawing those Practical Inferences that naturally arose from it, and were most applicable to them, and proper for their Instruction and Encouragement to return to GOD by Faith and Repentance, whom they had so greatly offended by their wicked Lives and enormous Crimes.

On the Lord's Day, the First instant, I preach'd to them, and others there present, who were many (too many) both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon this Text, Gen. 9 6. Whoso sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed; for in the Image of GOD made He Man.

In my Explanation of which Words I shew'd,

I. The Penalty which (by the Law of GOD) is inflicted upon the Murderer, for whom no Intercession nor Ransom ought to be accepted to save his Life, or procure him a Pardon, but he must be surely put to Death; as GOD expresly enjoyns in his Holy Word, and particularly in Num. 35. 30, 31. and here in the Text, where He says, Whoso sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man (i. e. by the Magistrate appointed to do Justice) shall his Blood be shed: Which is the former Clause. But,

II. Besides the Penalty specified here, GOD is pleas'd to give the Reason for it in the latter Clause of the Text, which is this: For in the Image of GOD made He Man. From whence it clearly appears, that whosoever kills any Person willingly does commit an Injury, not only against that Person whom he kills, but against GOD himself, whose Image he thus presumptuously contemns, and does deface.

Having enlarg'd upon these two Heads, and shewn what sort of Killing (in the Account of the Scripture) is Murder, and what is not; and how they should stir up themselves to the highest degree of Repentance, who have ar

riv'd to this high pitch of Wickedness, or (indeed) are guilty of any other Crime; I then summ'd up both these my Discourses with particular Exhortations, suitable to the Cases of the Condemn'd. And again,

On the last Lord's Day, the 8th instant, being the Blessed Day (not only of the Month, but even of the Week also) on which Our Most Gracious Queen ANN (whom GOD long preserve) ascended the Throne, I preach'd both in the Morning and Afternoon, to the Persons under Condemnation, and others that were there present, and took my Text out of the Gospel for the Day, viz. Matt. 22. 21. Then says He unto them, Render therefore unto Cesar the things which are Cesar's, and unto God the things that are God's.

Before I open'd the Text, I made a short Prefatory Discourse upon the Subject of the Solemnity of this Day; shewing,

First, How much cause We of this Church and Nation have to return our humblest and heartiest Thanks and Praises to Almighty GOD, for that He (in his good Providence) was pleas'd, as on this Day, to set so Pious, so Just, and so Wise a Princess upon the Throne of these Kingdoms.

Secondly, How Devout and Earnest we all should be in our Prayers to GOD for her Majesty's Long Life, Continu'd Health, and Prosperous Reign over us. And,

Thirdly, How readily and dutifully we should obey Her excellent and wholsom Laws, Honour Her Sacred Person, and peaceably and quietly Observe and Submit to all Her Royal Commands; faithfully endeavouring by all honest and just Means to render Her Government Easie and Happy to her, as it plainly appears it is Her Gracious Intent to make it so to Us. And therefore (as CHRIST enjoyns in the Text) Let us render unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, &c.

Which Words of our Blessed Saviour's, with their Context, having explain'd in general, I then proceeded to observe from them in particular,

I. The Malice, Wickedness, Subtilty, and Craftiness of the Pharisees, to bring about the pernicious Counsel and Device they had form'd against Christ, to whom they apply'd themselves with this specious (but most deceitful) Speech, at 16, 17 Verses. Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the Way of GOD in Truth; neither carest thou for any Man, for thou regardest not the Person of Men: Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give Tribute unto Cesar, or not? This was their captious and ensnaring Question to Christ: To which,

II. Christ gives this wise and unexceptionable Answer we have at the 18th and 19th Verses, in these words: Why tempt ye me, ye Hypocrites? Shew me the Tribute money. Whereupon they producing to Him a Penny (a small Piece of Money) that bore Caesar's Image and Superscription: He ask'd them this Question, at the 20th Verse, Whose is this Image and Superscription? To which they answering, v. 21, that it was Cesar's; He then said unto 'em (in the words of the Text) Render therefore unto Cesar the things which are Cesar's, and unto God the things that are God's. From which Words I shew'd,

III, and lastly, The exact, useful, and wholsom Doctrine couched in that Answer given by Christ, who does herein clearly teach us Obedience both to GOD, and to our Governours. For hence we may learn,

1st, That it is our Duty to give every one his own; Tribute, to whom Tribute is due; Custom to whom Custom; Fear to whom Fear;

Honour to whom Honour; as the Apostle commands, Rom. 13. 7. We ought to render to God the things of God, viz. Religion and Worship; and unto Men the things which respectively belong to them: Nay, (further) we must give the Devil himself that which is his due, charging him with the Cause of all our Sins, Iniquities, and Miseries.

2dly, That the Spiritual Kingdom of Christ in his Church, and the Civil Kingdom of Caesar, are distinct and separate; for (tho' they be both of God, yet) each of them being included within its own Bounds, may not enter upon the Borders of the other: For a Prince may not administer the Sacraments, nor a Priest sway the Scepter.

3dly, That (therefore) the Kingdom of Christ does not abrogate the Kingdom of Caesar, but on the contrary 'tis most evident, that the Gospel is a good Friend to all Civil Government, in teaching Princes how to Rule with Equity, and the People how to Obey and be Subject to the Higher Powers; that is (as the Text expresses it) To render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's, &c. Wherein 'tis observable, that Christ does not say, Give, but Render; and that, because Tribute is not a Gift, but a Debt due to Caesar. Now, if Tribute must be paid to Caesar a Pagan Emperour, much more to Christian Kings and Queens, who are to the State, as the Scripture says they are to the Church, Nursing Fathers and Nursing Mothers: To whom these Three Things principally belong, viz.

1. Honour. Honour the King, 1 Pet. 2. 17.

2. Obedience. Obey Magistrates, and them that have the Rule over you, Tit. 3. 1. & Heb. 13. 17.

3. Tribute. So the Apostle having said, Ye must needs be Subject [to the Higher Powers] not only for Wrath, but also for Conscience-sake, he adds, For, for this Cause (i. e. in token of that Subjection which you owe to them) pay you Tribute also: For they are God's Ministers, &c. Rom. 13. 5, 6.

I enlarg'd upon these Heads and Particulars, and then concluded with proper Exhortations and Admonitions to the Condemn'd Persons, whom I endeavour'd to make sensible of their being highly Guilty of the Breach of Christ's Precept in the Text, as having render'd neither to GOD, nor to the QUEEN, the Things due to Them, but contrariwise most presumptuously offended against the Laws of both.

As I discours'd them in publick, so likewise I did in private: And then it was that they gave me the Account of their Past Lives, Present Dispositions, and Hopes of a Future State; of which the Reader may see so much as I have judg'd proper to impart here to the World.

1. Susan Perry , alias Dewy , Condemn'd for Stripping naked, Robbing and Murdering of John Peirce , an Infant of 4 Years of age, on the 27th day of January last. She said, She was not above 22 Years old; That she was born at Greenwich , and had liv'd a considerable time in or about London ; That she at first learnt to make Manteaus ; but when she was out of her Apprentiship, not being able to find Work in that Calling for her Maintenance, she then went to live with a Seamstress , with whom she staid but a

little while; and then betook her self to cry, sometimes News-Papers, and at other times Fruit, &c. about the Streets . She confess'd, she was before now (viz. in October last) try'd at the Old-Baily, for a Felony, which she was found Guilty of, and Whipt for; and, That after her Discharge out of Newgate she liv'd a poor, miserable, wretched Life; which as she had then no Thought to render better by honest Means, so she was easily tempted to make it worse, as she did by committing the Fact she is now to die for. The Robbery she readily own'd, but the Murder she deny'd, saying, She never laid violent hands upon the Child, only took off his Cloaths from him, and left him (otherwise) untouch'd or unhurt. Upon which I told her, I could not believe she spoke the Truth in this Particular; for it was not at all likely that any other but her self (who did the Robbery) should have gone to strangle a Child that lay stark naked in the Fields, as she (by her own Confession) had left him: But indeed, she who had the cruel Heart to do such a barbarous thing, as to leave a poor innocent Babe in that manner, and in such a place, must naturally be thought to be the bloody Person that committed the Murder also. Besides, tho' One would suppose (a thing none can hardly do) that it had been otherwise, I mean, that she had not kill'd the Child outright by strangling of him (which no doubt she did, to prevent his crying and making a Noise, that might have occasion'd her being then apprehended) yet her leaving of him in that deplorable destitute Condition, in the open Air, in a cold damp Field, in that rigorous Season of the Year, and at that dark time of the Day too, it being (as her self told me) about Candle-lighting, must needs have occasion'd the Death of that poor Infant; which was (as the Honourable Judge worthily observ'd to this Notorious and Hard-hearted Criminal, at her Tryal) Such a Piece of Barbarity as no Age can hardly parallel. Thus I endeavour'd (by representing to her the horrid Enormity of this Inhumane and Barbarous Fact) to make her sensible of her great Guilt, and the Danger she was in of being eternally punish'd for it, and should certainly be so, unless she obtain'd of GOD the Pardon of it; which she ought therefore earnestly and constantly to implore. With this and what else was offer'd to her, she did not at first appear to be much mov'd; for so great was her Stupidity, that she express'd no Concern nor Remorse for the great Evil she had done; but afterwards, upon the renewing and enforcing my Admonitions to her, she seem'd in some measure to relent and have a Sense of her heinous Sin, tho' she still denied her actual Commission of that most horrid and barbarous Murder. But by her Tears, and other Expressions of Grief, she shew'd her great and just Apprehension of GOD's severer Judgment in another World, than that of the shameful Death she was to suffer in this; I endeavouring all the while to make her truly sensible, That as she most certainly was the Cause of that poor helpless Child's Death, so she must expect, that unless she carefully follow'd the Advice I gave her, to Repent, and cry mightily to GOD for Grace and Mercy, she should irrecoverably perish, and be lost to all Eternity. Upon this she seem'd to comply with the Directions I gave her herein, at least so far as her Ignorance (which was great, and mix'd with an obstinate and harden'd Disposition) did permit; praying (as she was often taught from David's Practice and Example in the 51 Psalm) That God, of his great

Mercy, would blot out all her Transgressions: That He would deliver her from Blood-guiltiness; Create in her a clean Heart, and renew a right Spirit within her; that so, being cleansed from the pollution and filthiness of Sin, she might be admitted into Heaven, the Place of perfect Purity, Holiness, and, Happiness. Now whether her Heart was by these truly disposed towards God, or not, I shall not here determine: But this I can safely say, that she had apply'd to her the Means of Salvation, and she express'd some Hopes of it, through the alone Merits of JESUS CHRIST; whose Blood, which cry'd better things than the Blood of Abel, was (as I told her) all-sufficient to purify, heal, sanctify, and save her Sin-sick and defiled Soul, if with the Hands of a lively Faith, and sincere Repentance she did lay hold on HIM that is the true Lover of Souls, and the only Redeemer of the World; who came to call all Sinners to Repentance, for their Salvation.

2. Richard Adams , condemn'd for Assaulting and Robbing on the QUEEN's Highway, Mr. Robert Taylor , taking from him a Guinea and two half Crowns, upon the 14th of February last. He said, he was about 22 years of Age, born at Eastham in Worcestershire : That he had rid almost 2 years in the Earl of Oxford's Regiment , being the Second Regiment of Her Majesty's Life-Guard, under the Command of the D. of Northumberland; and, That upon a late Reducement made in that Regiment (and his Horse being bad) he was (with several others) discharg'd at that time, which was a little before Christmas last. He confess'd the Fact for which he was condemn'd; but said it was the very first day he began to Rob; adding, That when he was apprehended, a certain Person did take from him 5 l. 10s. 6d. in Money, with some Farthings; which was more than himself ever had taken from any Man, and which (save Mr. Taylor's Guinea and two half-Crowns) was all his own; and yet could never get any thing of it again from that Person who thus took it from him, and had no manner of Right to it. But now having no more occasion for it himself, he freely forgave it him. I found him very stubborn and untractable, and most ignorant in Things of Religion; for though he could read pretty well, yet by the little Knowledge he discover'd, it appear'd to me, he had made no very great or good use of his Reading: Neither did he shew any Devotion at all, when I had him either in the Chapel publickly, or in my Closer privately; for notwithstanding my telling him several times, That he should kneel at Prayers, stand up at the Creed, and reverently and devoutly attend to the Word of God, and all wholsom Admonitions given him; yet he seldom did any of these; but was so stupid, as not to have (as it seem'd) any Sense of the Duty he ow'd both to GOD and Man, nor indeed of the great Concern he should have had for the Welfare of his own Soul, the Eternal Salvation whereof he (in all outward appearance) minded very little; till at last finding he must certainly die, he then express'd great Sorrow for his Sins, which he acknowledged had justly brought him to this shameful and untimely End; confessing he had highly offended God, by a loose, disorderly and vicious Life, and humbly praying (as he was taught) for Mercy and Pardon at God's Hand, that so he might avoid the unspeakable Misery of Hell, and obtain the transcendent Happiness of Heaven, through the most prevailing Merits and Mediation of JESUS CHRIST, the Saviour of all Men, especially of Those that Believe, as St. Paul affirms, 1 Tim. 4. 10.

At the Place of Execution, whither they were carry'd from Newgate in a Cart this Day, I attended them for the last time; and after proper Exhortations to them, I pray'd with them, sung some Penitential Psalms, and made them rehearse the Apostles Creed: And so wishing them that Forgiveness of Sins, and that Life Everlasting, which they profess'd to believe; and commending their Souls into the Hands of a Faithful Creator and most Merciful Saviour, I withdrew from them, and left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some little time allotted them. After this, the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, each of them with their last Breath crying, Lord, have mercy upon me! Christ have mercy upon me! Lord, have mercy upon me! Lord, save me! &c.

This is all the Account here to be given of these dying Persons, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Friday, February 13. 1712/1713.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Books set forth by PAUL LORRAIN , before he was, and since he is Ordinary of Newgate .

A Guide to Salvation, or the Way to Eternal Bliss. Sold by William Meadows near the Royal Exchange in Cornhill . The last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse : And, The Dying Man's Assistant. Both printed for, and sold by John Lawrence at the Angel in the Poultry . A Preparation for the Sacrament; with Moral and Divine Maxims. Minutius Felix, or a Vindication of Christianity against Paganism. Funeral Rites of of all Nations. A Discourse of Christianity, with the Character of a true Christian. A Sermon preach'd upon an especial Occasion, and dedicated to the Lord High Treasurer of Great Britain. Publish'd by John Morphew near Stationers-Hall , London .

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new sett of Cuts, adapted to several sizes of Common-prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam; engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate ; where may be had all sorts of Bibles, either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sizes; Common-prayers in Folio, for the use of Churches; Common-prayers in 8° & 12°. All neatly bound. Duty of Man's Works of all sizes; Duty of Man in Latin; Latin and Welsh Common-prayers; Tate and Brady's new Version of Psalms, with the new Supplement: Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament, Mr. Clutterbuck on the Liturgy; The Statutes at large, in 3 vol. Bp Beveridge's Sermons and private Thoughts, &c.

MR. Paul Lorrain 's Sermon, preached in the Chapel of Newgate , on July the 6th, 1712. against Atheism and Blasphemy, upon the Abjuration, Recantation, and Conversion of Mr. Richard Burridge , who was convicted of Blasphemy before the Right Honourable Sir Tho. Parker , Lord Chief-Justice of England . Price 6 d. Likewise a Treatise against Atheism, wrote by the said Mr. Burridge whilst under Confinement, entituled, Religio Libertini; or, The Faith of a Converted Atheist: To which is prefixed, A Narration of his Life, from his Birth to the time of his Sufferings. An Account of what pass'd at his Tryal; with a relation of the Cause of the Prosecution. Both sold by J. Graves next White's Chocolate-house in St. James's Street, and J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

TIpping's Pleasant Liquor, so famous for the Cure of the Collick, Stone, Gout, and Rheumatism; is appointed, by Mr. Tipping, to be sold at Withers's Coffeehouse in Jewin-street, near Cripplegate, London, at 3 Shillings the Bottle, with Directions; and that the Publick may not be impos'd upon by any ignorant Pretender to it, he has made Oath before several Magistrates of the City of London, that it is prepar'd according to the true Receipt of the late famous Dr. Tipping, his Grandfather, from whom he had the Original Receipt. NB. He is to be spoken with at the aforesaid Coffeehouse about that, or any other Business, from Morning till Night.

THE History of the Famous Town of Hallifax in Yorkshire, being a Description thereof. Their Manufactures and Trade. Of the Nobility, Gentry, and other Eminent Persons born and inhabiting there and thereabout, with a True Account of their Ancient odd Customary Gibbet-Law: And their particular Form of Trying and Executing of Criminals, the like not us'd in any other Place in Great Britain. To which are added, Revenge upon Revenge: Or, an Historical Account of the Tragical Practices of Sir John Eland of Eland , upon the Persons of Sir Robert Beamont and his Allies. Also, an Account of the Bloody Revenge taken by Adam, the Son of Sir Robert Beamont , and his Accomplices, upon Sir John Eland and his Posterity. Publish'd for the Satisfaction of those who understand not that Prayer, From Hull, Hell, and Hallifax, good Lord deliver us.

HEaven upon Earth; or, the Best Friend in the Worst Times, being a Legacy to London , by James Janeway . The Second Edition, Corrected. Both printed for, and sold by E. Tracy, at the Three Bibles on London-Bridge.

Just Publish'd, the Eighth Edition of

THE Whiggs Unmask'd; being the Secret History of the Calves-head-Club, containing all their Treasonable Songs at their King-killing Clubs. Adorn'd with new Cuts. Much enlarg'd by a genuine Account of all the Plots and Cabals of the Whiggish Faction, against the Queen and Ministry, to this present Time, never before Printed, &c. Sold by John Morphew , near Stationers-hall . Where may be had Sir William Cavendish 's Memoirs of Cardinal Woolsey, containing all his Negociations and Treaties of Peace betwixt England and France. The Memoirs of Robert Earl of Leicester, Prime Minister and Favourite of Queen Elizabeth. Publish'd by Dr. Drake. The Virgin Unmask'd; or, Female Dialogues betwixt an Old Lady and a Virgin, on Love and Marriage, by Dr. Mandevil. Epicurus's Morals translated from the Greek, by John Digby , Esq ; with Comments and Reflections taken out of several Authors.

1. The British Hudibras, in 5 parts, compleat; Being a Continuation of Mr. Butler's Hudibras, the 3d Edition, adorn'd with Cuts: Written by Mr. Ward. 2. Dr. Drakes Picture of a Favourite; or the Memoirs of the Earl of Leicester. 3. Sir William Cavendish 's Memoirs of Cardinal Woolsey. 4. Memoirs of the Court of Scotland. 5. Memoirs of the Court of England. 6. Memoirs of the Duke of Orleance. 7. The Memoirs of the E. of Warwick: the four last Written by the Countess D' Anois, Author of the Ladies Travels.

All sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

London printed, and are to be sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

