THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF

The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at TYBURN on Wednesday the 2d of November, 1715.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 12th, 13th, 14th, and 15th, and adjourn'd to Tuesday the 18th of October, 1715, Seventeen Persons (as I mention'd in my Paper of Friday last) were found Guilty; viz. Three of High-Treason, and the rest of diverse other Capital Crimes, and did accordingly receive Sentence of Death. Of these Persons, the Three for High-Treason being Executed on that Day, viz. Friday the 28th of October, of whom an Account has been already given, (to which I refer the Reader) Three Women among the other Malefactors, repriev'd for their Pregnancy, and Four of the Men by HIS MAJESTY'S gracious Mercy (which I wish they may duly and daily improve) the other Seven were order'd for Execution on Monday last, but respited to this Day.

While they lay under this Condemnation, I constantly attended them twice every Day, and gave them such Instructions and Admonitions, as I thought proper for their respective ilities and Circumstances.

On the two LORD'S Days, the 16th and 23d of October, I preach'd publickly to them (both in the Forenoon and Afternoon) in the Chapel of Newgate. The Matter of those Sermons having been shew'd in my last Paper, I shall here give an Account only of these I preach'd to them on the last Lord's Day, upon this Text; 2 Cor. 5. 10. For me must all

appear before the Judgment-Seat of CHRIST, that every One may receive the Things done in his Body, according to that he has done, whether it be Good or Bad.

After I had explain'd this Text in general, I shew'd in particular,

I. The Necessity and Infallibility of a future Judgment.

II. The Strictness and Equity of that Judgment.

III. and lastly, The Use we ought to make of this Doctrine in the Text, which is, That we should lead a Holy Life; and when me have done otherwise, heartily repent, and earnestly sue at the Throne of Grace for GOD'S Pardon, before we are call'd to the Bar of His Justice.

On these I enlarg'd, and concluded all with suitable Exhortations to the condemn'd, who (for the most part) seem'd, as it well became them, to be affected with what was deliver'd to them: The respective Account of whose past Lives and present Dispositions, here follows.

1. John Fair , condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mr. Ralph Moreton , and stealing thence Five pound-weight of Dy'd Silk, and the like quantity of raw Silk, a Silk-Gown, and other Goods, on the 17th of May 1712. He said, he was 19 years of age, born at Leeds in Yorkshire ; That when but 12 years old, he came up to London , and liv'd with his Father-in-Law, a Brewer's Servant: That at first he went to School; then was put out to One that made flower'd Stuff, and afterwards bound Apprentice to a Silk-Weaver in Spittlefields : That when he had serv'd about four Years, his Master dying, his Father-in-Law took him in again, and imploy'd him in his own Business. He deny'd the Fact for which he was condemn'd, but own'd he had been a vicious Liver, much addicted to Swearing, Drinking, &c. which he pray'd GOD would forgive him. I found him of a very rough and stubborn Disposition, but that was abated by the approach of Death.

2. Edward Shaw , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mr. James Stiff , and taking thence a Callico-Quilt and other Goods, in the Year 1712. He said, he was about 20 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Mary in Whitechapel : That he had serv'd an Apprentiship of 7 years with a Cane-chair-maker in St. Paul's Church-yard : That when his Time was out he work'd Journey-work, and then becoming acquainted

with John Keen alias Cane , (the Evidence against him) he was by him enticed into that wicked Course of Life which brought him to this shameful Death. He would fain have made me believe he was not guilty of the Fact which he now stood condemn'd for, and that he never did an ill thing in his Life; but I convinc'd him of the contrary, putting him in mind, That in January 1713/1714 he was convicted of a Felony, and burnt in the Hand for it. Then he confess'd this was true, and acknowledg'd also at the same time (tho' he denied it but just before) that he had done many unjust things, which it was not in his power to make amends for, but pray'd God and those he had wrong'd would forgive him. He confess'd likewise, That he had been a great Swearer, a Profaner of the Lord's Day, and a very wicked Liver; and, That being ignorant in Matters of Religion, (for he could not so much as read, and scarce knew the Lord's Prayer) he never minded any Religious Duties; the neglect of which, he now found, was the Cause of his Ruin.

3. John Evans , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mr. Peter Barker , and stealing thence 18 China Dishes, 6 China Cups, 2 Silver-Salts, 8 Silver Spoons, and other Goods, on the 25th of August last: Also for stealing 7 Holland Aprons, 2 pair of Stockings, some Caps, and other things, from Mr. John White , on the 3d of October last He said, he was about 20 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Thomas in Southwark , where he serv'd his Apprentiship with an Uncle of his, a Brasier : That when he was out of his Time, he set up for himself, and kept a Shop in the Parish of St. Giles Cripplegate ; and, That he never did an ill Thing. Yet upon my putting him in mind, that (under the Name of John Highcroft ) he was try'd for stealing 18 quarts of Brandy, Tobacco, and other things, in October 1713; he said, he remember'd it, and had been sufficiently punisht for it, being burnt in the Hand and sent for two Years to the Bridewell in Clerkenwell , but made his escape out of it above a Twelvemonth before his Time was out. He own'd he was Guilty of that Fact, tho' he would not say the same of this he now stood condemn'd for.

4. John Stapleton , alias Stevenson , alias Smith , condemn'd for a Burglary by him committed in the House of Capt. William Coldwell , stealing thence 2 Damask and 12 Diaper Table-cloths, 12 Damask and 24 Diaper Napkins, on the 5th of October last. He said, he was 22 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Andrew Holborn : That his right Name was Steventon; That he had been well brought up by his Friends, who were honest People, and took great Care of him: That when he began to understand something of the Affairs of the World, he apply'd himself to Merchandising , and chiefly dealt in Holland, Callicoes, &c. between England and Holland. He deny'd the Fact he was condemn'd for, but own'd that he had been an Offender (and under the Lash of the Law) before; having made very little Use of the Ability and Opportunity he had of being honest. He ask'd Pardon of GOD for all his Sins, and Men for the Wrong he had done them, which he could not otherwise repair.

5. Benjamin Payne , condemn'd for privately stealing 180 Poundweight of Inkle, value 20 l. from Mr Stafford Briscoe , on the 3d of October last. He said, he was 24 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Mary in White-chapel : That he had learnt Surgery, and serv'd on board the Newark and the Albemarle, as an Assistant to the Surgeons of those Ships , and was about 20 Months in Spain, where he had the Post of an Ensign in the Lord Baltimore's Regiment, under the late Reign: That his Parents, who were Persons of Honesty and Reputation, had given him good Education, but he had not answer'd it, and was now very much griev'd for the Miscarriages of his past Life, which he pray'd GOD to forgive him. But as to the Crime he was condemn'd for, I found it difficult to bring him to a plain Confession of it.

6. James Blunt , alias Bonnet , (which last he said was his right Name) condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mrs. Mary Gostin , and taking thence 16 Gold-Rings, a Gold Necklace, a Coral, 4 SilverThimbles, several other Goods of value, and 15 l. in Money, on the 25th of August last. He said, he was 26 Years of age, born in Virginia : That he serv'd a Planter in that Country till about 5 Years since, at which time he came into England, and got some Employment at Sea , where he did (at times) serve on board several Men of War and Merchantmen. He would not confess his Guilt of the Fact he was to suffer for, and said, he never did any such thing in his Life: But I told him he was much mistaken, for I knew he had received Sentence of Death before; which he could not but acknowledge when I particularly shew'd him how he was try'd and condemn'd at the Old-Baily in October 1714, for breaking the House of Mrs. Miriam Baker , and stealing thence a Silver-Coral, and other Goods of value, on the 4th of that Month, and was then Repriev'd, and afterwards Pardon'd, which Pardon he pleaded in that Court on the 6th of August last. I found him very ignorant and stupid, and with much difficulty brought him to a Sense of his Sins, (aggravated by his presumptuous Abuse of Mercy) and to that kind of Repentance which (as I shew'd him) was only ailable to Salvation.

7. Daniel Blunt , alias Rider , (the former being his right Name) condemn'd for picking Mr. Joseph Greenway 's Pocket of a Silver-Snuffbox, on the 28th of September last. He said, he was 27 Years of age, born in Little Grays-Inn-lane , in the Parish of St. Andrew, Holborn : That he serv'd Ten Years at Sea , viz. Five in the Royal Navy, on board the Greenwich, the Boyne, the Experiment, Rochester, and two or three Men of War besides; and the other Five Years in Merchantmen: That he was not guilty of this Fact, but seeing that Snuffbox on the Ground, he took it up and put it into his own Pocket: and, That he never robb'd any Person of any thing in his Life, only his own Mother, when he was a Boy: But I shew'd him he did not speak the Truth in that, for I knew he had before this, viz. in September 1714, been convicted of a Felony for stealing an Handkerchief, and

was whipt for it, and since that had committed some Robberies on the Highway: Then he confess'd it was so; and, That about 7 or 8 Months ago he was enticed by some Highway-men to go along with them, and in their Company committed 6 or 7 Robberies on the Highway, whereby he got no great matters; but being taken at last, should have suffer'd the Punishment he deserv'd, had he not obtain'd his Pardon by becoming an Evidence against two of them, viz. John Kennady and Peter Wells , who did, both of 'em, receive Sentence of Death at the late Assizes at Maidstone in Kent , and accordingly were executed there.

After they had (all of th) persisted a long time in the denial of their Guilt of the respective Facts they were severally condemn'd for, Four of them, viz. Evans, Steventon, Payne, and Bonner at last confest it, but the other three did not, Steventon declar'd, as he was a dying Man, That neither his Uncle, nor his Wife, nor any of his Relations, were ever concern'd in his wicked Facts, but on the contrary always gave him good Advice.

At the Place of Execution, to which they were carried from Newgate this day, (viz Six in two Carts, and One in the Coach with me) I attended them for the last time and gave them such Exhortations as were proper for 'em. I pray'd with them and made them rehearse the Apostle's Creed, and sing some penitential Psalms: When I had done admonishing them, and recommending their Souls to God, I retired from 'em. Then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, calling on God in these and the like Ejaculations: Lord, have Mercy upon me! Lord, save me! &c.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Persons.

To which I shall add,

A Numerical Account of all the Malefactors who have been Condemned, Repriev'd, and Executed, (as likewise of those that Dy'd in Newgate between the Day of their Condemnation, and that appointed for their Execution) in London and Middlesex, from the Time of my being chosen to be the Minister and Ordinary of Newgate, (which was in November 1700) to the Close of the late Mayoralty.

NB. When I first enter'd upon this arduous and melancholy Office, in the Beginning of the Mayoralty of the Right Honourable Sir THOMAS ABNEY , Knight, I found no less than 65 Persons that had lain for a great while before under Condemnation, viz. 52 Pirates (who were for the most part Foreigners) and 13 other Criminals. Of the Pirates, 24 were Hanged at one time at the Execution-Dook in Wapping, and of the 13 other Malefactors, 8 were Executed at Tyburn.

In the Mayoralty of 1. Sir Thomas Abney , Kt. Condemn'd. 118 Repriev'd. 48 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 4 Executed. 66 2. Sir William Gore , Kt. Condemn'd. 49 Repriev'd. 36 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 13 3. Sir Samuel Dashwood , Kt. Condemn'd. 38 Repriev'd. 20 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 4. Sir John Parsons , Kt. Condemn'd. 35 Repriev'd. 18 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 17 5. Sir Owen Buckingham , Kt. Condemn'd. 44 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 16 6. Sir Thomas Rawlinson , Kt. Condemn'd. 33 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 5 7. Sir Robert Bedingfield , Kt. Condemn'd. 23 Repriev'd. 5 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 8. Sir William Withers , Kt. Condemn'd. 34 Repriev'd. 16 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 9. Sir Charles Duncomb , Kt. Condemn'd. 39 Repriev'd. 29 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 10 10. Sir Sam. Garrard, Kt. & Bart Condemn'd. 36 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 8 11. Sir Gilbert Heathcote , Kt. Condemn'd. 36 Repriev'd. 23 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 13 12. Sir Robert Beachcroft , Kt. Condemn'd. 43 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 15 13. Sir Richard Hoare , Kt. Condemn'd. 60 Repriev'd. 35 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 28 14. Sir Samuel Stanier , Kt. Condemn'd. 108 Repriev'd. 48 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 1 Executed. 59 15. Sir Will. Humphrys, Kt. & Bart Condemn'd. 76 Repriev'd. 38 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 38 Total- Condemn'd. 772 Repriev'd. 428 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 5 Executed. 330

NB. Steventon left in the Hands of a Friend of his some Papers, which are said to be of consequence. If those Persons whom they concern will call upon the Ordinary of Newgate, they may hear further.

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary.

Wednesday, Nov. 2d. 1715.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new Sett of Cuts, adapted to several sizes of Common prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam, engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate , where may be had all sorts of Bibles, either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sizes; Commonprayers in Folio, for the Use of Churches; Common prayers in Octavo and Twelves. A New Edition of the Book of Homilies in Folio; all neatly bound. The Duty of Man's Works of all sizes. Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and Welsh Common prayers, Tat and Brady's new Version of Psalms, with the new Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. Mr. Clutterbuck on the Liturgy. The Statutes at large in 3 Volumes. Bp Beveridge's Sermons and private Thoughts, &c.

At the Red Ball in Queen-street, Cheapside, near the Three-Cranes Landing-place,

LIveth a Gentlewoman that hath a most incomparable Wash to beautify the Face, which far exceeds all that are extant, as abundance of the greatest Quality have found by Experience, to their great satisfaction. It takes out all manner of Wrinkles, Freckles, Pimples, Redness, Morphew, Sunburn, Yellowness caus'd by Mercurial Poisonous Washes; it also plumps and softens the Skin, making it as smooth and tender as a sucking Child's; the young it keeps always so, and the Old it makes appear fair and young to admiration. It has nothing of Paint in it, neither doth any Person know the Secret; you may have from half a Crown to Five Pounds the Bottle. You may have Pomatums, White-pots, the like not to be compar'd with; also Powder for the Teeth, which makes them as white as Snow. She hath a most excellent Secret to prevent Hair from failing, causing it to grow wherever 'tis wanting. She alters Red or Grey Hair to a delicate light or dark Brown in a few Days, which will never change; she shapes the Eyebrows, and makes 'em beautiful; she hath a delicate Paste to whiten the Hands, and a red Pomatum to colour the Lips, and prevents their chapping in Winter. She hath a certain and infallible Cure for the Toothach without drawing, that the Pain shall not return. She is but lately remov'd from the Cheshire Cheese in Walbrook.

On, Wednesday next will be publish'd,

The Court of Venus; or, Cupid restor' to Sight, being a History of Cuckolds and Cuckold-makers; contain'd in an Account of the Secret Amours and Pleasant Intrigues of our British Kings, Noblemen, and others; with the most incomparable Beauties and famous Jilts, from K. Henry II. to this present Reign. The Whole interspers'd with curious Letters of Love and Gallantry; in 2 vols, with a Key to Both. By Capt. Alex. Smith . Also the Works of Mr. Hickeringill, containing the History of Priests and Priest craft. The Black Nonconformist. The Ceremony-monger; and all the rest of his Works, in 3 vols. Likewise the History of the Wars of the Kings of Israel and Judah, in 2 parts. Publish'd by Order of a Committee of the House of Commons 1641, at the beginning of the Civil Wars of England. Printed for John Baker in Pter-noster-row , R. Burleigh in Amen corner, and M. Dd at Temple-har.

THE 3d Edition of the posthumous Works of Mr. Sam. Butler , written in the Time of the Grand Rebellion, and the beginning of the Restauration, in Prose and Verse; with a Key to all his parts of Hudibras, by Sir Roger L'Estrange , in 2 vols.

The 3d Edition of Mr. Street's Astronomy, or his Tables and Rules for calculating of Eclipses; with Dr. Edmund Haley 's Observations on the Moon and Planets.

THE Works of his Grace George Villiers , late Duke of Buckingham , in 2 Vols, containing a compleat Collection of all his Dramatick Pieces that were acted, with several design'd for the Stage, from the Original MSS. Also his Poems, Dialogues, Satyrs, Letters, and his Speeches in Parliament. To which is added, a Collection of the mo: remarkable Speeches, Debates, and Conferences of the most eminent Statesmen on both fides in the House of Lords and Commons, from the Year 1640, to the present Time. The Third Edition, with large Additions, adorn'd with Cuts. Printed for Sam. Briscoe , and Sold by R. Burleigh in Amen-Corner.

The Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , in 4 neat Volumes; on an Elzevir Letter, serious and comical, in Prose and Verse, the 4th Edition, with large Additions never before publish'd.

The History of the Lutheran Church, price 6 d.

The Lutheran Liturgy in English: Both written by a Gentleman-Commoner of Magdalen College, Oxon. pr. 6 d.

The 3d Edition of the History of the Lives of the Highwaymen, Footpads, Housebreakers, &c. for 50 Years past, by Capt. Alex: Smith, in 3 vols.

A Water that perfectly cures the Itch, or any Itching Humour in a few Days, without necessity of Purging, or the dangerous use of Mercury, as will be attested by several Persons of sufficient Credit, pr. 1 s. 6 d. the Bottle. Prepar'd by A. Downing, Chymist, at the Golden-ball and Crown in Hand-Alley without Bishopsgate. Also a curious Preparation for the Teeth and Gums, which fast loose Teeth, cures the Scurvy in them, and prevents their rotting, price 2 s. A Remedy for the Tooth-ach, the most general for giving effectual Ease of any yet known, price 1 s. Likewise the true Essenial Spirits of Sourvy-grass, Purging and Plain, and the Spirits of Ground-Ivy, at 8 d. a Bottle.

The Works of Dionysius Longinus , translated from the Greek, by Mr. Welsted.

Mr. Ward's British Hudibras, in one vol. with Cuts.

