The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words of Mr . James Coats , who was Executed at Tyburn , on Friday the 24th of Day January, 1706/1707

AT the Sessions held at Justice Hall in the Old Baily , on Wednesday the 15th, Thursday the 16th, and Friday the 17th instant, the afore-mentioned Mr. Coats received Sentence of Death.

While he lay under this Condemnation I constantly attended him in his Retirement, and sometimes in the Chappel.

And on the Lord's Day, the 19th instant, I preach'd to him and others there present, in the Morning upon this Part of the Epistle for the Day, Rom. 12. 10. Be kindly affectioned one to another with Brotherly Love.

From which Words I shew'd, That Christian Love (which is so much recommended to us under the Gospel-Dispensation) does most effectually keep Men from wilful acts of Injustice, as it naturally puts them upon those of Mercy and Benevolence; it making them as careful to avoid wronging their Neighbours, as they can be desirous not to be wrong'd themselves; and disposing them to be as ready (upon occasion) to do good to others, as they would desire (especially if they stood in great need of it) that others should do good to them.

To the Practice of which Duty of being kindly affectioned one to another with Brotherly Love, I exhorted them, chiefly, from these Considerations.

I. The Excellency of the Duty it self.

II. Our Obligation to it.

III. The Advantages accruing to Mankind from it. And in order to this Practice I directed them;

1st. To compare their former Life with the Precept in the Text. And,

2dly, To regulate their future Life by it.

In the afternoon I preach'd upon Eccl. 9. 10. Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom in the grave whither thou go'st.

Here I shew'd, That the Argument us'd by Solomon in the Text to perswade Men not to slip, but readily embrace the present Opportunity, and perform what they have to do before they die, is this; That after Death there is nothing to be done that can any ways be available to them.

To inforce this Truth, and inculcate it upon my Auditory, I desired, that with Solomon in this Book of Ecclesiastes, they would but seriously reflect upon the Vanity of this present Life; and herein consider,

I. The Shortness of it, and the Troubles it is attended withal.

II. The Eternity which is to follow it. And,

III. The great Work we have to do before our short time in this World is expired, in order to our avoiding the Misery, and obtaining the Happiness of the next.

Having enlarg'd upon these Particulars, I made Application; and concluded with a pressing Exhortation to the Person condemn'd.

He was then very attentive, as he always appear'd to be, both before and after his Condemnation. I found him sensible of his great Offences, which he acknowledg'd had justly provoked God to send this Punishment upon him. He declared several Facts which he had committed in company with others, whom he named, and who I hope will now take warning by him: And he particularly confess'd that of his robbing Madam Atley upon the Queen's High-way near Eating ; for which he stood condemn'd. He said he was very sorry for all the ill Things he had done, which he could not now undoe; but earnestly begg'd Pardon for them, both of God and of the Persons he had injur'd, and profess'd that he dy'd in Charity with all Mankind.

The particular Account that he gave me of himself, was in short and in substance this; That he was something about 50 Years of age, born in the City of London , of very honest Parents, who lived in Plenty and Credit in the World; as himself did for some time: But having by Gaming, and other Extravagances, brought himself to Poverty; and being disappointed of those Employments which he was seeking for, sometimes in the West-Indies , and at other times in Flanders , as well as here at Home; and wanting the Grace of God, and forgetting those Duties of Christianity that were taught him by his Virtuous Parents; he fell upon this wicked Course of Robbing on the High-way; saying, that he had been engaged in it about a year and a half, and no more; That meer necessity (joyned with the Inducements of others) had forced him to it, and that he never went about it but with some reluctancy, and with a full purpose never to hurt any in their Persons. He said further, that the first ill Fact of this kind, which he ever was concern'd in, was his Robbing Madam Henslow's House near Amersham-Commons in Buckinghamshire , and taking from thence about Eighty Pounds in Money and some Medals, hid in a very private place; to which one Mr. R. L. (who had 5 Pounds for his share) directed him with four more that assisted him in that Robbery, which was by them committed in the daytime upon the 7th of June 1705, when they came under the pretence of being the Queen's Messengers that were sent to search that House. Of this and other his Robberies, he told me, he had given a true and just Information; adding, that he had 8 Pounds for his own share; and the rest of the Booty went to the other four, who were of long standing and greater Masters in that unlawful Art than he was. He said, that he soon grew weary of that Life; and that he was always very poor in it, and much inwardly troubled for it; being sensible, as of the Vanity and Unprofitableness, so likewise of the Sinfulness of it; and upon that account had resolved to leave it off. But he stay'd too long in the Execution of so good a Resolution; and so the Providence of God arrested him, and effectually brought him off from it, by this merciful, tho severe Method, with which he seem'd to be well satisfy'd, and acquiesced in the justice of it.

At the Place of Execution, whither he was this day carry'd in a Cart, and where I attend-him for the last time, he express'd himself to this purpose: That he pleaded Guilty both to God

and Man; That he hop'd to be sav'd through the alone Merits of Jesus Christ; That he forgave all the World, and pray'd the World to forgive him; That he dy'd in Charity with all Men; and desired the Prayers of the Standers-by. And he openly declared, as he had before done to me; That the Information which he gave before My Lord Mayor, was true in every part of it.

Then we went to Prayer, and Singing of Psalms, &c. And after I had perform'd my publick Office with him, I left him to his private Devotions, for which he had some time allow'd him. And then the Cart drawing away, he was turn'd off; while with great earnestness he was calling upon God to have mercy upon his departing Soul, in these and the like Ejaculations. Lord Jesus, I come, I come. O Lord pardon my Sins, and have mercy upon me. Sweet Jesu, receive my Soul! &c.

I suppose, That from the Information which Mr Coats has made so publickly at the Tree, the Gentlewoman, who (it seems) is so much in the forementioned Mr. R. L's Interest, will now be satisfy'd, That I have delivered nothing in this Paper concerning Mr. Coats's charging the said Mr. R. L. &c. but what he (upon the Word of a dying Man) confess'd to me; and that she has been very unjust in writing to a certain Person (no doubt) worthier than her self is, That by Bribes one might have any thing put into the Dying Speech. But if ever that Gentlewoman come under my Hand (which God forbid) she will find, that I am not a Man capable of being bribed.

This is all the Account here to be given by

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Friday, January the 24th, 1706/1707

††† Whereas some Persons take the Liberty of putting out of Sham-Papers, pretending to give an Account of the Malefactors that are Executed; in which Papers they are so defective and unjust, as sometimes to mistake even their Names and Crimes, and often misrepresent the State they plainly appear to be in under their Condemnation, and at the time of their Death. To prevent which great Abuses, These are to give Notice, That the only true Account of the Dying Criminals, is that which comes out the next Day after their Execution, about 9 in the Morning, the Title whereof constantly begins with these Words, The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, &c. In which Paper (always Printed on both sides the better to distinguish it from Connterfeits) are set down the Heads of the several Sermons Preach'd before the Condemned: And after their Confessions and Prayers, and Atestation thereto under the Ordinary's Hand, that is, his Name at length; and at the bottom the Printer's Name, Dryden Leach ; which if the Readers would but observe, they would avoid those scandalous Cheats so constantly impos'd upon them.

Note, You are desired to observe the spelling of the said Printers Name.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Newly Re-printed,

EUrope a Slave, unless England breaks her Chains: Discovering the Grand Designs of the French-Popish Party in England for several years last past. Sold by I. Cleave next Door to Seargeant's-Inn in Chancery-Lane, and Tho. Atkinson at the White Swan in St. Paul's Church-yard .

THE third Volume of the Writings of the Author of The London-Spy, consisting of Poems on divers Subjects, viz. A Dialogue between Britannia and Prudence. Fortune's Bounty. A Protestant Scourge. A Musical Entertainment. A Satyr against the corrupt Use of Money. The Libertine's Choice. The charitable Citizen. All Men mad, or England a great Bedlam. A Satyr against Wine. A Poem in Praise of Small-Beer. On the Success of his Grace the Duke of Marlborough. Helter Skelter, or the Devil upon two Sticks. Journey to H -, in three Parts. Honesty in Distress. With several other Poems never before Printed. Sold by B. Bragge, in Pater-noster-row. Where may be had the first and second Volumes with several other Miscellanies, single, by the same Author

Now in the Press, and speedily will be Published

THE Wooden World dissected, in the Characters of, 1. a Ship of War. 2. a Sea-Captain. 3. a Sea-Lieutenant. 4. a Sea-Chaplain. 5. the Master of a Ship of War. 6. the Purser. 7. the Surgeon. 8. the Gunner. 9. the Carpenter. 10. the Boatswain. 11. a Sea-Cook. 12. a Midshipman. 13. the Captain's Steward. 14. a Sailor, &c. By a Lover of the Mathematicks. Sold by B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-row: Where may be had a Present for the Dispensers of Equity, Law, and Justice throughout England and Wales. By Sir Mathew Hales , late Lord Chief Justice of England . The present Condition of the English Navy, set forth in a Dialogne be twixt young Fudge of the Admiralty, and Captain Sheerwell an Oliverian Commander.

Yesterday was Published,

A Poem upon the Law, occasion'd by a late Act of Parliament, entituled, An Act for the amendment of the Law, and the better advancement of Justice, together with a Character of, and a Panegyrick upon my Lord keeper and the 12 Judges. By a Gentleman of the inner Temple. Sold by B. Bragge in Pater-noster-row. Where may be had, the Lord Beilhaven's Speeches to the Parliament of Scotland on the Union, &c. Mr . Thomas Beaven 's Speech to the Quakers, at the Monthly Meeting to be held at Warminster , in the County of Wilts , Nov. 8th 1706. Korah: or, the danger of Schisme, a Poem. A Sermon preach'd at Sutton in Surrey, on Dec. the 13th, 1706.By William Stevens , B. D . Published at the request of the Auditors.

This Day will be Published.

THE Secret History of the Calves-Head Club, compleat: or, the Republican unmask'd. Wherein is fully shewn, the Religion of the Calves-Head Heroes, in their Anniversary Thanksgiving-Sons on the Thirtieth of January, by them called Anthems, for the Year, 1693, 1694, 1695. 1696, 1697, 1698, 1699, &c. with Reflections thereupon, Now published to demonstrate the restless, implacable Spirit of a certain Party still amongst us, who are never to be satisfy'd, 'till the present Establishment in Church and State, is subverted. The Sixth Edition, with large Improvements; and a Description of the Calves-Head-Club, curiously engrav'd on a Coper Plate. To which is annex'd, a Vindication of the Royal Martyr, King Charles the First. Wherein are laid open, the Republicans Mysteries of Rebellion. Written in the time of the Usurpation, by the Celebrated Mr. Butler, Author of Hudibras. With a Character of a Modern Whig; or, the Republican in Fashion. London, Printed: and sold by by B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-Noster-Row, against Ivy-Lane. 1707.

BOOKS set forth by Paul Lorrain , Ordinary of Newgate , viz,

††† The last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse ; and the Dying Man's Assistant. Both Printed for J. Lawrence, at the Angel in the Poultry. A Preparation for the Sacrament; and Moral and Divine Maxims. Printed for B. Aylmer at the 3 Pidgeons in Cornhil: And, A Guide to Salvation. Sold at the Star in St Pauls Church-yard, London.

RObert Whitledge , Book-binder at the Bible in Creed lane within Ludgate , can furnish all Booksellers, and others, with the Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack; and with all sorts of other Bibles and Common-Prayers, large and small, with Cuts or without, Rul'd or Unrul'd Bound in Turky-leather, or otherwise; extraordinary or plain, or unbound. Also the Statutes at large, and the Articles and Canons of the Church of England. Tate and Brady's new Version of the Singing Palms. The Common-Prayer in French. The new Book of Rates compleat. With all other Books neotly Bound.

London: Printed by Dryden Leach in Dogwel-Court in White-friars , near Fleet-street , 1707.

