THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 20th of this Instant DECEMBER, 1731.

BEING THE FIRST EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. FRANCIS CHILD , Esq ;

Number I. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXI.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Justice Raymond, the Hon. Mr. Justice Denton, the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London, Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 13th, 14th, and 15th of October, 1731, in the Fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

One Man, viz. John Turner , and one Woman, viz. Anne Palmer , alias Jenks , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

And also

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. FRANCIS CHILD , Esq; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Page, the Hon. Mr. Baron Cummins, the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the said City, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of the Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of

Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday, being the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 13th of December, 1731. in the fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Eleven Men, viz. Patrick Knowland the Father, and Robert Knowland the Son, John Norman , John Rogers , William Newell , Thomas Woolcot , James Dortman , whose Name was Daultworth , George Mason , Samuel Cole , Edward Payn , and William Trevors , were convicted by the Jury of capital Offences, and had Sentence of Death past upon them.

When under Sentence, most of them being YOUNG MEN, wholly addicted to their sensual Appetites, and void of all good Qualities, and by Consequence grosly ignorant of religious Matters, and wholly unacquainted with the Ways of God. I expos'd to them the Danger and unreasonableness, of giving themselves up to their own Hearts, Lusts, and vicious Appetites, since that Course of Life cannot fail to bring them to Misery, Contempt, Disgrace and exemplary Punishment in this World, if persisted in, and if not repented of, to eternal Misery and Desolation in the Life to come. I show'd them that God had made us reasonable Creatures, after his own Image in Knowledge, Righteousness and true Holiness, that being endow'd with rational Faculties, capable to discern betwixt good and evil, it was a perverting of our Nature and insulting our Reason, to give ourselves up to the fulfilling of our wicked Hearts, Lusts and vicious Inclinations, which alienate our Minds from God, rob us of that glorious Image and Pattern after which we were made, and make us degenerate into the Nature of Fiends, Lyons, Tygers and other Beasts of Prey: So that instead of being Beneficent, Good and Merciful, like unto God who is all Love and Goodness, who is kind to the Evil and the Good, St. Mathew, v. 45. That ye may be the Children of your Father which is in Heaven: For he waketh his Sun to rise on the Evil and on the Good, and sendeth Rain on the Just and on the Unjust. They become common Enemies to God and Man, and every Thing which is Good and Vertuous, desirable and reasonable; and thus they precipitate themselves into innumerable Calamities, Sorrows and Distresses. And therefore the wise Solomon says, Righteousness exalteth a Nation: But Sin is a Reproach to any People. Prov. xiv. 34.

I show'd them the great Evil of Theft and Robbery, from the Cause of it, Covetousness, and too great a Love to this present evil World, an indulging of themselves in their carnal Lusts and Pleasures, which stand in a direct Opposition to every Thing that's Good and Virtuous, and expose us to the Wrath and Vengeance of God, both in this Life and that which is to come.

From all which I exhorted them to a steadfast Faith in Christ, as the Son of God, equal to the Father, and the only Saviour of Sinners; to a hearty and sincere Repentance for all their Sins, particularly the henious Offences of which they were Convicted; to Love God and set their Affections on Heaven and Happiness; and to forgive their Enemies.

I instructed them how they were early dedicated to God in Baptism, and that they had notoriously broken their baptismal Vows and Engagements. Wherefore it was necessary to renew their Covenant with God, by partaking in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, instituted in Commemoration of Christ's Death and Sufferings. This I insisted on from these Words of our blessed Saviour, Do this in Remembrance of me, St. Luke xxii. 19. and from Rev. xix. 9. Blessed are they which are called into the Marriage Supper of the Lamb.

While these and many such Exhortations were given, they all attended in Chapel, and were apparently attentive to Exhortations and Prayers. Cole was serious and very devout. Payn seem'd to be an indolent slothful Fellow; while he was under his unhappy Misfortunes, he lost or stole a Prayer-book belonging to the Chapel. All they who could read made regular Responses, Woolcot was very Sick two Days, and when he was able, attended in Chapel, and appear'd very Penitent, as he did when I visited him in the Cell.

Upon Friday, the 17th of December, Report of these thirteen Malefactors, under Sentence of Death in Newgate, was made to his Majesty in Council. When John Turner , of St. Michael's Queenhith , for feloniously Stealing a Guinea, and five Shillings in Money, the Property of Benjamin Turner , in the Dwelling-house of John Turner , the 10th of September last; Anne Palmer , alias Jenks , of Christ-Church , for feloniously stealing a Pair of Stays, value 20 s. an Apron, value 6 d. a Handkerchief, a Pair of Pockets, and other Wearing Apparel, and also 8 l. 5 s. in Money, the Property of Samuel Russel , in the Dwelling-house of the said Samuel Russel , the 29th of May last; and William Newell , of St. Martin's in the Fields , was indicted for privately Stealing the Lining of a Gown, &c. out of a Shop, the Property of Fanny Finnick , in the Shop of Christopher Cook , the 6th of November last, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Repreive: The other Ten, viz. Patrick Knowland , and Robert Knowland , Father and Son, John Norman , John Rogers , Thomas Woolcot , James Dortman ,

alias Daultworth , George Mason , Samuel Cole , Edward Payn , and William Trevors were order'd for Execution.

Edward Paine , and Samuel Cole , of St. Sepulchres , were indicted for assaulting William Brown on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Watch, value 40 s. a Chain value 5 s. a Seal, value 4 s. and 16 s. in Money, the 9th of November last.

I. Edward Payn , about 22 Years of Age, was put to School, but being perverse in his Temper, of a disobedient, wicked and cross Disposition towards his Parents and Relations, he did not mind his Book or learn much, so that when he came to his fatal Misfortune, he could scarce read, and was grosly ignorant in Christian Principles and Duties. When about 11 or 12 Years of Age, he would no longer go to School, but took Pleasure in going among and serving the Butchers; in which Way (as he said) he had Occasion of living a very wicked and lewd Life, and then it was, that he met with Companions, who taught him the first Lessons of Dishonesty, Theiving, Stealing, &c. and who brought him into a Habit of Drinking, Swearing, Blaspheming and other Impieties. He told also, that his Grandfather left him 250 l. but that his Father and Mother found a Way to get rid of it, while he was young; the want of which hindered him from doing Business to purpose. When he had attended the Butchers for some considerable Time, a Cutler , out of Friendship, took him Apprentice Gratis, he served four Years at this Trade, but his Carriage not being so agreeable as was needful, with Consent of both Parties, he left his Master. Afterwards he betook himself again to the Trade of a Carcass-Butcher, which he greatly lov'd, and married a Wife, a Woman of no good Character, but prov'd very honest to him, and followed some small Employment. They lived well together for some Time, wanting nothing needful for them, he in his own Way getting Abundance of Money; but then falling in with bad Company, particularly of wicked Women, they brought him to his speedy Ruin. Col and the Evidence against them, who was one of their Partners, were his chief Advisers to go out upon Street-Robberies, and after they had robbed Mr. Brown, they perswaded him to commit another Robbery in Holbourn , saying he might then turn Evidence, but in this his Partner prevented him. He said also, he had no Occasion of following such vicious Courses, since he was in good Business for one of his Station; but own'd, that he was a young Man of a most vicious Life, in Whoring, Drinking, Cursing, Swearing and Blaspheming, Lying and Pilfering, and other Vices incident to such abandon'd Wretches. He was a most impudent, audacious Fellow, so that when convicted, he curs'd the Honourable Bench of Judges, and all the Court. The Blame of this he threw upon Cole and his Companions, who perswading him to drink too

much Wine that Morning, so that he was quite out of his Senses, then they advised him to curse the Court, which he had the Impudence and Wickedness to do, and for which afterwards, when call'd to receive his Sentence, he begged Pardon: And when I told him in Private, what a great Sin it was to curse the Rulers of his People; the Truth of this he acknowledg'd, but for Excuse said, that he was very drunk, and knew not what he did, and that he was heartily grieved for what he had done. On Friday the 17th Instant in the Afternoon, he took down a Prayer-Book, belonging to, and out of the Chapel; this Book was seen in his Hand, when in Company with the young Woman he call'd his Wife; the Book could be seen no more, and both of them denied they knew any Thing of it. He also stole one of the Keeper's Hats, while he was under Sentence, but this they had the good Fortune to recover out of his Hands. He was an ingrain'd Rogue, a bold, wicked, obstinate Fellow. He professed himself penitent, upon which we shall not positively determine; and said, that he bare ill will to no body.

1. Samuel Cole , aged about 36 Years, was born in the Parish of St. Sepniebres , where his Father kept a Founder 's Shop six and thirty Years. His Parents were careful in bestowing on him a very good Education, and his Genius was so tractable, that at eleven Years old, he was able to translate Extempore, a Chapter out of the Latin Testament into English. But they not having Ability to breed him to any learned Profession, he apply'd himself chiefly to Writing and Arithmetick, in which he profited so well, as to fit himself for any Sort of Business. When he grew up to about Fifteen, his Mother died, and some short Time after he was bound Prentice to his Father. He now begun to grow very Headstrong, and Regardless of his good Father's Admonition, addicting himself to Idleness, and foolish Pastimes, neglecting his Business, and wearying the Patience of an indulgent Parent. Time went on at this sad Rate, till he was turned off Twenty, and then he took it in his Head to marry. The Person he pitched on, was a young Woman, whose Father was a watch Chain Maker. She hapening to be the chief Hand in her Father's Business, he could not well tell what to do without her, and prevailing at last both upon Cole and her, he took them into his House, and allowed them a Room; but in less than a Month, he grew so intolerable, that he left their House, and absented himself from all his Relations, for about two Months, six Weeks of which Time, he lived with a Woman of the Town. Then he went Home again to his own Father's House, who received him with great Kindness. But while he was endeavouring to make up all Matters with his Wife, a certain Person found out the Woman with whom he had lived, whom he prevailed on for three Guineas, to acknowledge a

Marriage between herself and Cole. On this he apply'd to a Magistrate for his Warrant, and sought to apprehend the Prisoner, in order to send him to Newgate. But his own Father getting Intelligence of it, persuaded him to go to Sea to avoid it, accordingly the Prisoner made a Voyage in one of His Majesty's Ships to the Stréights, which proved very Gainful to him. On his Return, he found both his Father, and his Father-in-Law dead. But his Mother-in-Law still owing him a Spite, endeavour'd to arrest him, in order to get all his Wages, knowing he had now no Friend to assist him; this obliged him to go into the Country, where he staid upwards of five Months, and then came back to Town, hoping her Malice might be now abated. But finding the contrary, and that she endeavoured more assiduously than ever to trap him, he grew careless as to what became of himself, and falling into ill Company, was soon after committed to Clerkenwell Bridewell , till he could give an Account of himself. His Mother-in-Law getting Intelligence of this, procured a Warrant from the Lord Chief Justice, by Swearing the Prisoner had threatned to set their House on Fire, which he declared as a dying Man, was a most abominable Falshood, he never having said any such Thing in the Course of his Life. However this detain'd him a Prisoner for four Months, during which Space she never sent him a Morsel of Bread. In this Confinement he fell into worse Company than ever. About seven Months after he was transported for seven Years to America . There he did not stay long, before he found Means to get on Board a Ship call'd the Snow, bound to the Island of Madera , where the Vessel was cast away in an Hurricane, and one of their Men drowned From thence he went Passenger to Jamaica , where he had not been long, before he was press'd on Board His Majesty's Ship the Diamond, where he continued about nine Months, and was then discharged. He staid but three Nights in London , and then ship'd himself on Board the Darby an East-India Man , in which he made a very prosperous Voyage. At his Return, having no Habitation, he went to see a Woman whose Husband died at Sea with him. He soon struck up a Match with her, and they for three Years lived very happily together, and in good Credit, she being as honest and industrious a Woman as could be. At last this News reached the Ears of another Woman, who could not be quiet till she found him out. Having been always used to good Living and Plenty, but now falling into very low Circumstances, she was very desirous of living again with the Prisoner, and finding he was at Gravesend , with the beforementioned Woman, down she came, and found them in Bed. She bid the Prisoner get up, he did so, and they agreed very well, till going out into the Town, she pushed the other Woman down, by which she hurt her

Face, and received an inward Bruise, of which she complained to her Death. However, he came to Town with the Woman, and lived with her five Months, being out of Business, and in Hopes of getting into some small Place, but that failing, and being ashamed of living on what she earn'd, he ship'd himself on Board the Bonetta-Pink, bound for Guinea and Buenos Ayres . She seemed very much concern'd at his going, and after he had sailed, help'd her Mother, who was a Nurse at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. When the Prisoner return'd again, having made a very fortunate Voyage, he began to make enquiry for this Woman, and soon heard she was married again; that did not hinder him from going after her; he found it too true, and that she was with Child: This heightned with the Reflections his Neighbours made about her, occasioned his refusing to live with her again; and upon this, falling into a State of Uneasiness and Melancholy, it led him to Drinking again, and ill Company, amongst the rest, into that of Edward Pain alias, Jumbo, and J-s P - e, in whose Company he committed the Fact for which he died. In relation to which he said, the next Morning after the Robbery, that they had shared the Money, they parted, and Pain alias Jumbo with his Wife went Home. Next Morning, Jumbo (as he call'd him) went and acquainted a Person who lives in Chick-Lane, that he had committed a Robbery when he was drunk upon such a One, and in Company of such Persons, naming them. This Person to whom he told the Story, goes away directly to the three other Persons whom he mentioned, one living near Chick-Lane, the other two in Drury Lane, and they consulted together to apprehend the Prisoner, and P-e, one of these Persons, lent Pain a Coat to go out in, to see if he could find them. On Wednesday the 24th of November last they met, when Pain told them, he had been before the Person they had Robbed, that he could not sweat to him, and that every thing was quiet as they could wish; and after a Walk towards Pancras , they resolved to meet again the next Evening, at a publick House near the Corner of Lincolns-Inn-Fields ; but the Prisoner suspecting him, sent a Messenger, who found him sitting on a Bench over against the House, where they were to have met; this Messenger told him, that they would meet him at a Coffee-house in Drury-Lane , and brought him along with him to the Place; so that Pain had no Time to give Notice to the four Persons he had fix'd in the House; however, he told them where they were the Night before, so that Evening they came to Figg Lane , in order to look for them, and Jumbo undertook to knock down one of them, if there were Occasion: However, tho' they were in sight, nothing happen'd that Night.

The next Night they appointed to meet at the same Coffee-House, but sent a Messenger, as before, to bring Pain to the long Field (as he call'd it)

which Pain complied with, tho' disappointed in his Design, having beset that House also, as he had done the Other. They had not been long in the Field, but a Gentleman came by in a Chaise, the Prisoner stop'd him, and called to Pain to do the like to a Horseman, who rode after it, but he let him pass, they took a single Half-Guinea, and appointed the next Night's Meeting in Moor Fields . Before that Time came, Pain was taken up for a Quarrel, upon which, sending for the four before mention'd Persons, who filled him with Hopes of becoming an Evidence, he told them where they were to meet, by which they were apprehended. He seemed to have a great Abhorrence and Detestation of his Crimes, and said, all the Service he could now render his Country, was to mention what fell within his Notice of the Methods proper for suppressing evil House, and preventing Youth from being drawn into such Mischiefs, as too often bring them to a shameful and untimely Death. He minuted, in Writing, several such Places, where he affirmed, they made a Practise of getting young Fellows, and when they have induced to squander what they have the next Thing they do, is to perswade them to go out a Robbing, providing them with Companions, whom they encourage them to impeach, upon which they cause them to be seized; by this Means cheating the Publick of the Rewards, and the deluded Wretches of their Lives. He expressed some Displeasure against those who apprehended them, and said, P-e told him, one of those four Persons had help'd him to his Pistols, and offer'd him a Horse: However, the Prisoner declar'd, he freely and heartily forgave them; that he died in Charity with all the World; own'd he had been a great Sinner, but hoped God had extended his Mercy so far to him, as to give him a sincere and hearty Repentance; said, he rely'd only on the Merits of his Saviour, and earnestly intreated the Prayers of all charitable Christians for his departing Soul.

The following is a LETTER which he deliver'd to his Wife (as he call'd her) the Day before his Execution, which is as follows, viz.

Newgate , Dec. 19th, 1721.

My DEAR LIFE,

THIS comes from your Dying Husband, desiring for Christ's sake to Mind what I am going to write. My dear we have been but a short time together, as God thought it so fit, to take me out of this miserable World, and to make my poor immortal Soul happier in the next. My Dear, take my Advice for God Almighty sake, refrain that Course of Living; altho' you get but Six-pence a day, it will be sweeter then if you have 10 s. the other way. Consider the Sins you commit against your poor immortal Soul, besides the Punishment of your poor Body in this World, making you Old, before you

are Young. My Dear, go to your Aunt and implore to her for Christ's sake, that she would look upon you, and take you in favour again and show her this Letter; it will be a great Easement to my Mind, if you will but Promise me that you will do your best endeavour. My Dear, consider what a great Work I am going thro', the Day of my Dissolution draweth near, my Soul being upon the brink of Eternity, either to go into those eternal Flames, or else into everlasting Happiness. But I trust still in our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, who sits at the right Hand of his Father, making Intercession for our poor immortal Souls, as when that great tribunal Day cometh, when the Trumpets shall found the Alarm, the Rocks will rent, the Graves will open, the Sea will give up her Dead, then both Body and Soul will be joyned together again, for to take share of one Punishment: O! what blessed Saying will that be, when our Saviour says, as his Writing in the xxv. Chapter of St. Mathew, and the 34 Verse. Come ye Blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you, from the Foundation of the World. So my Dear for God Almighty's Sake hear my Prayers, and take my Advice, it will be the better for your poor immortal Soul, when you come to pay the Debt as I am going to pay. So no more, but I desire your Prayers to God Almighty, for my Poor departing Soul; which is all at Present from your poor Dying Husband.

SAMUEL COLE .

Pray give my kind Love to your Brother, so I desire your Prayers.

The following Words was spoke by the said Prisoner every Forenoon and Afternoon, to the Spectators in the Chapel of Newgate , after Divine Service was over, viz.

GENTLEMEN,

WE are all sensible that the Day of Dissolution is near, nearer than what we expected, according to the Laws of God and Man, we have receiv'd our fatal Sentence in this World, that is for to take our Lives; but we hope to receive a happier Sentence for our Souls, at the last and great tribunal Day, when the Trumpets shall sound, the Rocks shall rent, the Graves shall be open'd, the Sea shall give up her Dead, and our blessed Lord and Saviour Christ, who sets at the Right Hand of God the Father, making Intercession for our poor immortal Souls. And how God Almighty had sent to us his Son, to suffer for the Sins of us Sinners, who suffered Death upon the Cross, who was buffetted and spitted at, whose Hands and Feet was nail'd to the Cross, whose Side was pierced, who drank Vinegar and Gall, who wore a Crown of Thorns on his Head: Thus did our great God, suffer his only begotten Son to lay down his Life for our poor immortal Souls: Consider my fellow Sufferers our Moments is short, let us consider the Suffering of our blessed Saviour, as he went through for us poor miserable Sinners, to save us from those eternal Flames; Let us with true Repentance and a sincere Heart, follow those good Examples, as our blessed Saviour doth Express. Come unto me

all that Travel and are heavy Laden, and I will refresh you. So the Lord have Mercy upon our poor immortal Souls.

The following Lines was spoke by the Prisoner in his Cell to the Bellman, a Sunday Night last, between the Hours of Nine and Ten o'Clock, after he had made his Speech to them in the Press-yard of Newgate .

SIR,

YOU are come to give us Warning that we must suffer according to our fatal Sentence, that is to be hang'd by the Neck till we are Dead, for what we have been guilty on against the Laws of God, and Man. To-Morrow is that fatal Day that we are to suffer: Therefore I Desire the Prayers of all good Christian People that is here Present, likewise of them that doth not hear me; it is a sad Thing, for a Man to know the Time that he must depart this miserable World, let him be never such a good Liver, certainly be must have a great Terrour upon his Conscience, knowing that his Soul doth lye upon the Brink of Eternity. How can we expect Mercy from him, whom we have so highly offended; but still our blessed Saviour says, there shall be more rejoycing over one Sinner that repenteth, then ninety and nine just Persons that needeth no Repentance: So I trust through the Mercy of our blessed Saviour Christ, that with a true Repentance, and a sincere Heart, I shall be receiv'd into his heavenly Kingdom. So the Lord have Mercy upon my Soul, Christ have Mercy upon my Soul, the Lord have Mercy upon my Soul.

William Trevor , and Robert Nowland , alias Nowls , of St. Andrew's Holbourn , were indicted for breaking and entring the House of Thomas Gibson , in the Day Time, no Person being therein, and stealing from thence a cloth Coat, Value 3 l. a Pair of Breeches, a Waistcoat, a Pair of Stockings, two Shirts, a table Cloth, two Sheets, and 7 Guineas, the Goods and Money of Thomas Gibson , the 2d of Nov. last.

3. William Trevors , 19 Years of Age, born in Dublin , had some Education at School in Reading and Writing, but the Perversity of his Nature had almost obliterated this, and as for Christianity, he scarce knew any Thing of it. When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Painter , but hating Confinement, and being an Enemy to all virtuous Dispositions, he was guilty of many Miscarriages, so that his Master could make nothing of him; upon which he absented his Master's Service, and gave himself up to all Manner of Licentiousness, in Whoring, Drinking, Blaspheming, House-breakings, Pilfering and Theiving, having thus led for some Time past a most flagitious diabolical Life at Home, when he thought his own Country too hot for him, he made his Retreat to London , about nine or ten Months ago. Since he came to this Place, he did not mind his Business much, but got

into the Acquaintance of such Companions as he formerly used, viz. into Gangs of the most notorious Whores, Pickpockets, pilfering Theives, House-breakers, &c. in and about the Town. He was try'd and acquitted of some Felonies and Burglaries, the Session preceeding the last; but afterwards, upon Suspicion, he was taken up, and put in the New prison , Southwark . A Gentleman came to me, and desir'd me to ask him about his Swearing against two Men, while he was Prisoner there. He was a most obstinate, surly, ill-natur'd, cross and backward, and would tell nothing; yet next Day, after much Importunity, and many Perswasions, representing, that it was his Duty, in common Justice to Mankind, to tell the Truth before he dy'd; he desir'd to see the Gentleman again; who next Day, being Thursday the 16th Instant, waited on him, and then he declared to him the whole Truth of the Matter, which he gave to him in a Paper, under his own Hand, to this Import.

That one J. B. who had been try'd for a Felony in setting his House on Fire, ask'd him, if he knew for what he was detained? He answered, no. Then said he, if you will swear two Men into Robberies and Burglaries, you will get free. Trevors at first was not willing, but afterwards in Hopes of saving his own Life, he comply'd, and accordingly he went before a Justice of Peace, and swore falsly against Francis Norris a Barber in Whitecrosstreet , and John Kelly of the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields , upon the Instigation and over Perswasion of the said J. B. Norris was taken up, as also Kelly. But Trevors not justly minding the Description J. B. had given of him, when Norris came in his Presence, he did not know him; upon which Norris was let out, and Trevors discredited in his whole Evidence. J. B. thought to have recovered a Sum of 500 l. of the Sun-Fire-Insuring-Office, but was disappointed. For Norris told the Judge, that J. B. had promised him 40 l. to swear falsly in his Favour. The said Person lies now in Prison upon another Bill of Indictment found against him. Trevors pretended to be a Roman, but it may be feared, his Religion was to seek. He was a peevish, surly, ill-looking Fellow. He pretended Penitence, and dy'd in Peace with all the World. The Robberies he swore against these poor Men, were the same he was acquitted off. They say, he was Son-in-Law to Patrick Knowland .

James Dortman , was indicted for attacking Mr. Burnell on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and robbing him of 13 Shillings in Money, and a silver Medal.

4. James Dortman , whose right Name was Daultworth , 28 Years of Age, of honest Parents, born at Sea, while his Mother was coming from Ireland to England, was put to School, and learn'd to read, write and cast Accompts, to fit him for Business; but as for Religion, he made it the least

of his Business, for he knew very little thereof. He said he was of no Country, because he was born at Sea, but that he liv'd much in Ireland , and sometimes in England . When of Age, he was not put to any Business, but serv'd Gentlemen as Steward or Butler , and (as he said) honestly and with Approbation. He married a Wife, had Children, and was in great Necessity. He said, he was never much addicted to Vice, but that he liv'd honestly, and knew none of the Gangs of Theives and Robbers. Being reduc'd to the utmost Straits, having nothing to subsist himself, his Wife and Family, and not knowing what Way to turn himself, he was in a Manner desperate, and being provided with a Pistol and Hanger, at 9 or 10 o'Clock at Night he went out, being deadly drunk, and not considering what he was to do, he attack'd one Mr. Burnell in great Russel-street by Bloomsbury , and robb'd him of 13 Shillings and a silver Medal, as was sworn against him. His Wife being big with Child, intreated him for God's Sake to stay at Home, but he would not be persuaded, and she never saw him again, till the next or second Day after he sent for her, and she found him in Newgate .

Upon Sunday Morning, the 28th of November last, he, with three others, broke out of the Master's Side for Felons of Newgate, and had near made their Escape, had they not frightned some Prentice-Boys, by breaking the Windows of a Garret-Room where they lay, and then the Boys making a Noise, and crying out, Thieves and Robbers, the Keepers came and found them in a Back-yard, and carried them to Prison again. Daultworth jump'd down two Stories high, and was bruised by the Fall, yet in two or three Days he was well again, and said, if his Leg had not been hurt, that he could not walk, he had got off; for they had got in Tools to saw off their Irons, and their Legs were at Liberty.

He declared himself very penitent, and said, that he gave good Christian Advices to the rest, who had attempted, though without Success, their Escape with him, particularly to a young Man who was acquitted upon a capital Indictment. He owned the Justice of his Sentence, according to Law, saying, that he was very willing to die, only it grieved much for to leave his Family unprovided, his Wife having given away every thing to support him under Sentence, and being in a very miserable Condition. He declared his Faith in Christ, a hearty Repentance for all his Sins, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind, and in the Roman Communion.

John Norman and John Rogers , of St. George's, Bloomsbury , were indicted for assaulting John Mosely on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Silver Seal, value 2 s. and 9 s. 8 d. in Money, the 17th of October last.

John Norman , 19 Years of Age,

born in the Parish of St. Andrew's Holborn , was educated at School, to Read, Write, and cast Accompts, to fit him for Business, and instructed in Christian Principles; but those he minded least. When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Shoemaker , but he never inclin'd to apply to any close Business, and was constantly a naughty, disobedient Boy, both to his Parents and Master, whom he left, before his Time was half out, and join'd in Company to the most notorious Thieves and Robbers in or about with whom he stood not to commit all sorts of Villanies he was capable off He was a vicious Boy, habituated to all kind of Vices, Whoring, Drinking to Excess, Swearing, and Blaspheming, all the different Species of Theft, House-breaking, Pick-pocketing, privately Stealing, pilfering every thing his Hand could get hold off, and at last he resolved to rob in the Streets; but in this Way he did not long succeed, being taken up after his second Attempt, and brought to condign Punishment, for that and the other abominable Crimes of his Life. He was an audacious, impudent young Fellow, and too capable of undertaking desperate Attempts. He was the Man who corrupted Rogers, who had been a simple Country-Boy, and engaged him to go out upon Street-Robberies, for the first of which both of them were taken up, Convicted, and Executed. He was Prisoner in Newgate sometime before, upon Suspicion of Felonies, of which no doubt he was guilty, but wanting Proof, he was let out again, though he had neither Grace nor good Dispositions to keep himself right, but hurry'd apace to his disgraceful End. He was always a perverse, wicked Wretch; but for two Years last past, he gave himself up to all manner of Wickedness, following no Employment whatsoever, but living upon the common Plunder and Destruction of all Mortals. He behaved always very gravely and devoutly in Chappel, and sometimes he wept. He profess'd a deep Sorrow and Repentance for all his crying Sins, particularly his Thefts and Robberies; that he hoped to be saved by the infinite Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ; and that he dy'd in Peace with all the World.

John Rogers , near 19 Years of Age, born at Croydon , of honest Parents, had little Education at School, and what he had learn'd when young, he had quite forgot; so that he could scarce Read or Write, and was grosly ignorant of Religious Principles. His Father died when he was young, and his Mother, so soon as he came to Age, bound him to a Packer in Coleman-street , whom he serv'd five Years, and (according to the Character his Master gave him upon his Trial) honestly and uprightly. He said that he was always a harmless Boy, and (while in the Country) obsequious to his Mother, and other Relations, as he was in the Town to his Master, till such time as he contracted acquain

tance with John Norman , and such other Reprobates, who drove him headlong to his Ruin. He also gave Account, that it was John Norman , who, in Conjunction with his Brother, and another young Man, who have fled and made their Escape, advised him first to undertake those wicked Courses, and acquainted him with the wicked Ways of those Miscreants about the Town. About three Quarters of a Year ago, he began first to absent himself from his Master's House and Business; but when once he contracted an intimate Friendship with Norman, then all Vestiges of Vertue were lost, and he plunged himself without further Ceremony, into all Manner of Impieties and Debaucheries. Then he got acquainted with the infamous Women of the Town, and stop'd at the Commission of no kind of Vices, as Whoring, Drinking, Blaspheming, Thieving, and Robbing in the Streets, for the last of which he was seiz'd and met with his deserved Fate. He behav'd gravely and devoutly in Chappel, and seem'd somewhat simple and sottish, and was very ignorant of Christianity. I endeavoured what I could to instruct him; but the Time was short, and he of a dull Apprehension. He hoped for Salvation thro' the Merits of the blessed Jesus; repented for all his Sins, and forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

George Mason , of St. Andrew's Holbourn , was indicted for assaulting Anne Kendall , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Burmudas Hat, value 5 s. and 2 s. in Money, the Goods and Money of her Husband Benjamin Kendall , the 5th of November last.

7. George Mason , 23 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Spittlefields , who being but in indifferent Circumstances, gave him little Education at School, and what was taught him in his Childhood, he by his Idleness, or Stupidity, or wicked Inclinations, had almost intirely lost. When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Weaver in Spittlefields , and serv'd out his Time honestly and with approbation The two other Years of his Life, he serv'd as a Journeyman. He was a negligent, careless and indolent young Fellow, neglecting his Duty to God, scarce ever going to Church, where he might hear godly Prayers, and be instructed in his Duty to God and Man; which might have prevented his fatal Catastrophe. He did not drink much, but at Night he for the most Part stay'd at Home; yet he haunted the Geneva Shops too much, where he got himself too often intoxicated with spirituous Liquors; and that he found to his sad experience; for in one of them it was, that he met with the poor Woman, who swore his Life away. He had not much to do with bad Women, tho' not altogether Innocent that Way; neither had he any acquaintance of Thieves and Robbers, or dishonest People, but the Company he commonly bore, was only of idle, vagrant or silly tippling Fellows. He

blam'd the Woman very much for swearing a Street-Robbery against him, for he said, that he had no such Design in his Head, but that going into a Brandy shop, he there accidentally met with the Woman, and staying in the Shop to 10 or 11 o'Clock at Night, they both were very Drunk, and as they came out to the Street, he did by force pull the Bermudas Hat off her Head, so that the String it was ty'd with broke, and otherwise he treated her a little roughly; but upon the Whole, he said he had no Design of robbing her, but what struck him in the Head at that Instant, he was so very drunk and stupified, that he could never give any Account there of: only he alledg'd, that the Poor Woman not thinking upon a capital Impeachment, was instigated and perswaded by another Person, to swear a Street-Robbery against him, because it could not be denied, but he assaulted the Woman, and actually took away her Burmudas Hat, in the open Street. He seem'd to be a senseless and timerous young Fellow; but said he was not near so Wicked, as commonly those unlucky Wretches are. He behav'd always with apparent Devotion. He declared his Faith in Christ; a hearty Sorrow and Repentance for all his Sins, having often griev'd and wept bitterly; and forgave all injuries, as he expected forgiveness from his heavenly Father.

Thomas Woolcot , near 19 Years of Age, of honest, creditable Parents in the Country, who gave him good Education at School, in reading English, Writing and Accompts for Business, and instructed him in the Christian Religion. When capable she was put out Apprentice to a Cooper towards Wapping , or Stepney Parish, and serv'd for five Years, without doing any Prejudice to his Master, as he said. About a Year ago he bega to haunt a Brandy-shop in that Neighbourhood too frequently, and there he became intimately acquainted with several of the most notorious Thieves, Robbers, and common Whores about the Town, who by their wicked Company and Conversation, entirely corrupted his Morrals, and left no vestage of Virtue remaining. With his wicked Companions he went out, left his Masters House, sometimes for eight Days at once, and liv'd upon picking of Pockers, stealing and thieving whatever he could lay hold on; and at Night he enjoy'd the sweet Company of his fellow Thieves and Pick-Pockets, and those common Prostitutes, who never fail to attend such rascally disposed People, one of whom (as he said) he Married, who afterwards pass'd for his Wife. I saw three or four of these vile Creatures coming to him, while under Sentence, one of whom at a Time I reprov'd, and told her, that they ought to be asham'd to appear before honest People, who had thus ruin'd and brought to the Gallows a poor silly Boy, little more than a Child, and who was of a much better Family then they were: Afterwards I did not see any of them appear. As to the Robbery he was convicted of, he confess'd that he met with Mr. Duffield, about 11 o'Clock at Night, in Well close Square , by Ratcliff highway

, and with a window bar knocked him down, and then took some money out of his pocket, of which he only got 3 d. for the watchmen hearing a great noise and outcry of murder was coming up, which obliged the Rogue to retire, after he had wounded the Gentleman most desperately in the head; and if time had allowed him to rifle the other pockets, he had got a fine watch, and abundance of gold and silver. After this Exploit he was soon taken up, and so prevented him from doing any farther mischief, by prosecuting his villanous Intentions. While he was a child, as he said he was observant of felial duties and kept the School and went to church frequently, and liv'd soberly, till he subjected himself to the influence and conduct of these base Instruments of Hell and Satan. He was very sick at his Trial, and under Seneence, but professed a deep penitence; and died in peace with all men.

Patrick Knowland , between 50 and 60 Years of Age, born in the Kingdom of Ireland , had no Education at School, and very little Knowledge of Religious Matters. When of Age, they brought him up a Taylor in the City of Dublin , where he served his Time, and lived many Years in a pretty good Way, and kept his Family; but of later Years having contracted some Debts, for fear of Imprisonment at home, he came over to England , and arriving at London , he settled about Rag-Fair, and was one of those who go about the Streets, crying out, Old Cloaths and Hats , &c. In this way he got Bread for his Family several Years, and lived in Lodgings thereabouts; and as some of the Neighbours say, he behaved well. About 2 Years ago he took a little House in the Parish of White-Chapel , of 8 l. per Ann. where he liv'd with his Wife, his Son and Daughter-in-Law, and the rest of his worthy Family: his house got one of the worst Characters in the World, and was by the Neighbourhood look'd upon, as a common Receptacle of Thieves and Robbers, and their stolen Goods. He denied that he ever robb'd, stole or thiev'd, only he own'd that he bought up what Cloaths or other Goods were offered him to fale in the Street, or any where else, without scrupulously inquiring whence or what way they came to his hand. Some Years ago he went over Dublin and accepted the Benefit of the late Act of Grace, in Favour of the insolvent Debtors; but most of the time since he was married, he lived in England , whether he returned with all Expedition after his business was over, thinking there was more to be got in London for Gentlemen of his Rank and Profession, who were brought to live upon their purchase, than in many other cities of considerable Note. He was the most unfortunate Man in his Family, one has possibly heard of for a good time; for his Wife and Daughter were confin'd in Newgate for Felonies while he was under Sentance; the wife was acquitted as being under the direction and influence of an husband; the daughter order'd for Transportation, and the son executed in company with himself. He own'd he bought the Goods he was convicted for, and complain'd of the woman who swore she saw him come out of the house, for he knew nothing of the matter, only bought the

Goods of Trevors who dy'd with him for a Burglary which he own'd himself guilty of, and who (viz. William Trevors , who they say was Knowland's Son-in-Law) affirm'd on the words of a dying man, that he was the person who with some other associates broke the house and stole the Gown and other Goods for which Knowland dy'd for; and that he sold them to Knowland at a market-price. Patrick behav'd quietly in Chappel, but being a Roman was shy in his confessions. He complain'd much that he could not see his wife and daughter while under Sentence, tho' they were confin'd to the same Jail. When reflecting upon his sad misfortune, he griev'd very much. He believ'd in Christ as the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners; repented of his heinous sins, and dy'd in peace with all the world.

Robert Knowland , 19 Years old, the unfortunate son of the preceeding most unhappy Patrick Knowland , was born (as his Father said) in London , and was taught at School to read, write and arithmetick fit for business; but it may be fear'd he was much neglected in spiritual matters, relating to the Welfare of his immortal soul. His Father bred him to his own business of a Taylor , which as he grew up he neglected and got in to very ill company, who led him headlong to destruction. A year or two ago he married a wife of his Kidney, with whom he lived in the same house, with his Father and Mother. He mind, ed his employment very little, but went out upon purchase of what he could get, by thieving and stealing out of houses or otherwise. He confess'd the Burglary for which he died. He own'd that he had been guilty of many thefts and larcenies, and that he was plung'd in those abominable Vices, which are common to thieves and robbers. He was pretty well drest, with silver mounting upon his cloaths, but was but indifferently taken care of, by reason of his Mother and Wife being confin'd in the said Gaol. He always behav'd modestly and gravely in chapel, where he constantly attended. His Father said, that his Mother, his Wife and he were rotestants; but when I askt him, he declared himself a Roman . Most People judged that his Father encourag'd him in his wicked and detestable courses; but this we leave to the Judgment of others, according to their Knowledge upon Information; but its certainly most probable, that the Family had a hand in the ruin of that poor miserable unlucky boy. He died in peace with all the World, repenting of his Sins, and believing in Christ, the only Saviour of lost Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Knowlands Father and Son, Dortman, alias Daultworth, and Trevors, being of the Romish Communion , were reserv'd in their Confessions, which old Knowland said, he had made to another that Morning, only he added, that he did not Steal the Goods for which he Died, but that he bought them of Trevors, the truth of which Trevors also confirm'd. Norman said, he had been a most profligate youth in all respect and that he suffered most deservedly; but that he hop'd for Mercy through Christ. Rogers own'd the Justice of his Sentence, and express'd his hopes of obtaining Gods mercy. Thomas Woolcott , own'd that he had been a most flagitious, wicked Boy, carried off by the vile, unworthy Company of the basest Men and Women, and hope for Salvation through Christ, appearing most deeply concerned and affected with his miserable condition. Mason added to his former Confessions, and said he could not give a distinct account of the Robbery, or of what he thought at that Time, because he was very Drunk. After prayers were over he sent me a Paper complaining grievously upon his Mother-in-Law for her Unkindness, and blaming her for his Misfortunes; but whether Right or Wrong, I know not. Pain sold nothing, but only call'd out for Mercy. Samuel Cole . after Prayers (and twice singing of Psalms, at his desire,) were over,

He made the following SPEECH to the Spectators, viz.

GENTLEMEN,

THE Fact that I die for, I actually committed, therefore I ask Pardon of God and Man for what ever I have Offended against them in this Miserable World. I freely forgive all Mankind as I hope my Saviour Christ will Forgive me: and I Dye in Charity with all the World: I must own, that I have been a wicked Liver, but through the Merits of my blessed Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, that Suffered upon the Cross, I hope to be saved; Therefore I desire the prayers of all good Christian People for the Benefit of my poor Soul, which now lyes at the Brink of Eternity, when the Breath Departs the Body, the Soul and the Body is seperated; the Body returns to the Earth from whence it came, the Soul it takes its flight, either to the eternal Flames, or else to everlasting Happiness, there to be confin'd till that great Tribunal Day that is when the Body and Soul shall joyn to take share of one Punishment together, either of Everlasting Happiness, or else the enternal Flames. Now when that great and Dreadful Day of Judgment cometh; when our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, shall set at the Right Hand of his Father, making Intercession for our poor Immortals Souls, O what a blessed saying will that be, Come ye Blessed of my Father Inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the Foundation of the World. O what blessed saying will that be to them that Dies in the fear of the Lord. So the Lord Almighty bless you and keep you, and lift up the Light of his Countenance upon you, both now and for ever more. Amen, I pray God. So the Lord have Mercy upon my Soul, Christ have Mercy upon my Soul, so the lord have Mercy upon my soul.

He caus'd this Paper to be handed to me in the Coach. Then he began and sung a Hymn to the Tune of an Anthem, which he looking upon the Coach and Company where I was, continued Singing, till he was carried off and choak'd. All of them desired the Prayers of all good and faithful Christians, and (as they were desired) went off the Stage, crying to God to have Mercy upon their poor souls, and that the lord Jesus would receive their Spirit. Knowland and his son kissed each other, after their Faces were covered, and then they embraced, and took their last Farewel. The Father's Body was chosen, since he had brought the son to that fatal end and carried off accordingly.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate.

