The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Speech of George Skelthorp , that was Executed at Tyburn , on Wednesday the 23d of March, 1708/1709.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday the 2d, and Thursday the 3d, and then adjourn'd to Thursday the 10th day of March 1708-9, Seven Persons being found Guilty of Death, received Sentence accordingly. Of these 7, One only is order'd for Execution, and the other Six have obtain'd a gracious Reprieve; which I hope they will take care to improve into further Mercy.

As soon as they were cast for their Lives, I constantly attended them every day: And upon each of the following Solemn Days, viz.

1. Sunday the 6th.

2. Tuesday, the Anniversary of Her Majesty's Accession to the Throne, being the 8th.

3. Ashwednesday the 9th.

4. Sunday the 13th.

5. Sunday the 20th.of this instant March,

I preach'd to them and others then present, both in the Mornings and Afternoons, upon these several Texts.

1. Upon Job 14. 14. If a man die, shall he live again? All the days of my appointed time will I wait till my change come.

2. Upon Psal. 40.16. Let all those that seek Thee, rejoyce and be glad in Thee: Let such as love Thy Salvation, say continually, The Lord be magnify'd.

3. Upon Isai. 55. 6 & 7. Seek ye the Lord while He may be found: Call ye upon Him while He is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord, and He will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for He will abundantly pardon.

4. Upon Luke 24. 46 & 47. (Part of the 2d Morning-Lesson). And [Jesus] said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the Dead the third Day: And that Repentance and Remission of Sins should be preached in his Name amongst all Nations, beginning at Jerusalem.

5. Upon Prov. 28. 13. He that covers his Sins shall not prosper: But whoso confesses and forsakes them, shall have Mercy.

I shall not here (as I usually do in the like Cases) set down the Heads of those Sermons: That would make this Paper of a larger Extent then I intend it. This only I shall observe, That I concluded every one of those ten Set Discourses with such an Extempore Exhortation and Application, as I thought most suitable to the Condemned; whom I visited and pray'd with in the Chapel twice every day, and had sometimes under private Examination. And then it was that I received from George Skelthorp his Confession, as hereafter follows.

This George Skelthorp , the only Person that is now to suffer, was try'd upon two Indictments, and found guilty of both. The first was for assaulting William Hills , upon the QUEEN's High-way (that is in the Streets from the Strand through the New Buildings to Covent-garden ) and taking from him 4 s. 6 d. on the 18th of February last. The other Indictment was for his assaulting James Booker on the 27th of the said Month of February, and taking from him a Gold-Ring, a Muslin Neck-Cloth, and 10 s. in Money, in or about the same place, where he had committed the former Robbery. The Account that he gave me, First, of himself; and then of what has a relation to those Facts of which he was accus'd, and for which he was condemn'd, was this: First, As to himself; He said, he was about 25 years of age, born at St. Edmunds Bury , in the County of Suffolk ; That he had been for a time a Domestick Servant in the Families of some Gentlemen, both in the Country and here in Town, and for above these Seven years last past, in the QUEEN's Service , first in Ireland , in the Regiment of Colonel Granfield, in Captain North's Company; and then in Flanders in the same Regiment, and afterwards here in HER MAJESTY's First Regiment of Foot-Guards, in Brigadier Totton's Company: That as he had not had much Education in Matters of Religion, and knew very little of that which is a great Help thereto (viz. Reading) but what he had of himself pickt up of late; so he was easily induced to a Loose Life of Drinking, Whoring, and Breaking the Sabbath-day, and totally neglecting the Service of God. All which heinous and crying Sins were now very grievous to him, and lay very heavy upon his Conscience.

Secondly, As to what concern'd the Facts for which he was to die; he deny'd his being guilty of them, or of any Crime that should have brought him before any Justice; but this only, That he knowing the time when, and the places where some Sodomites were resorting about Covent-Garden , he went to stand in their Way, and when any of them would (as they often did) carry him to a By-place thereabouts to commit their foul Acts with him, he went with them; and then he taking hold of them, threaten'd them, that he would presently bring them before a Justice, unless they gave him Satisfaction. By which means (he said) he got a great deal of Money at several times, of such Persons; who rather than suffer themselves to be exposed (some of them being Men of good appearance) gave him either Money, Rings, or Watches, or what else they had then about them. Which he would fain perswade me was the only thing that had brought this Prosecution upon him; acknowledging at the same time, that it was just with God thus to punish him, for having concealed and conniv'd at those foul Acts, which he easily might have discover'd and brought to Justice, as he ought to have done. But the Love of filthy Lucre had kept him from it; though it had not as yet (but he could not tell whether if he had gone on in that Trade, it would not at last have) brought him to yield to their lewd and foul Practices. This is the Substance of what he said; adding only as to this Matter, That there was a certain publick House about Covent-Garden, where he knew those Sodomites us'd frequently to meet, and had seen some of them there several times. And it now repented him, that he had not made a Discovery of them, as he often had fair opportunities for it.

He seem'd all along, from the time of his Trial to that of his Death, to be very willing both to learn and practice those Religious Duties, which (by his own Confession) he he had too much neglected before. He desired both my Instructions and Prayers, which he had, and I hope were not bestow'd in vain. But God knows the Heart of Man. He was very attentive to the Word of God, when read and expounded to him; and I could not observe any thing in his Behaviour, but what was becoming a Man under his sad Circumstances. He pray'd very earnestly to God for the Pardon of his Sins; and declar'd, that he forgave all his Enemies, and dy'd in Charity with all Men.

When he was carry'd this Day from Newgate in a Cart to the Place of Execution, I met him there, and discharged, for the last time, my Ministerial Office to him. I exhorted him more and more to repent and clear his Conscience before he dy'd. To which he return'd this answer,

That he repented with all his heart of all the Sins that he ever had committed, and trusted in God for Mercy, through the Merits of Jesus Christ. And here he further declar'd, That what he had told me before was true; and, That his Guilt was no other than he had then confess'd to me.

After this I pray'd and sung some Penitential Psalms with him: I made him rehearse the Articles of our Christian Faith: And then he said, That by the Grace of God he would die in that Faith, and hop'd for Eternal Life and Salvation.

Then he spoke to the People to this effect, That he had serv'd the QUEEN seven Years, and been in five Campaigns; That he had been a wild Young-man, and would be rambling abroad instead of going to Church: That tho' he was not guilty of those Robberies for which he was now to suffer, (that is to say, just in the manner as they were sworn against him) yet as he had greatly offended God, so God had justly brought him to this his Shameful and Untimely End. This he acknowledg'd. Now there being (it seems) one of the Witnesses that had sworn against him, close by the Cart, he was entring upon a Discourse with him in his own Justification of the Facts he was charg'd withal; but upon my telling him, That this was not a proper Time and Place to reflect upon any body but himself; and, That he should consider the few minutes he had now to live in this World, and think on that Great GOD, before whose Tribunal he was just going to appear, &c. he presently return'd to his Prayers, That God would be pleas'd to forgive him a great Sinner. He desir'd all Young Men, and others, to take Warning by him, and avoid his Sins, that they might not come to the like Condemnation. Sometimes he would express some uneasiness for his not having had the same Mercy shewn him as the other six Persons that receiv'd Sentence with him: But being made sensible, that his Crimes appear'd greater than theirs, he seem'd to be more satisfied, and acquiesce in the Justice of his Condemnation. He solemnly (and that more than twice) declar'd here, That he died in Charity with all the World, and freely forgave all those that had done him any Injury, as he desir'd to have Forgiveness at God's Hand.

This being done, I retired; and after some further time allow'd him for his private Devotions, the Cart drew away, and he was turn'd off; all the while calling upon God in these and the like Ejaculations, Lord JESUS have mercy upon me! Lord receive my Soul, &c.

This is all the Account here to be given of this Dying Person, by

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate .

March 23. 1708/1709.

ADVERTISEMENT.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , who formerly lived at the Bible in Creed-Lane , is removed to the Bible and Ball in Ave-Mary-Lane , near Ludgate , where all Booksellers and others may be furnisht with Bibles and Common-Prayers of all Sorts, with Cuts or without, Ruled or Unruled, Bound in Turky Leather or Plai. Mr. Sturt's Cuts Curiously Engrav'd; also other fine Cutts fitted for all Sizes and Common-Prayers. The Welsh Bible, Welsh Commmon-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. The Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and French Common-Prayers. Tate and Brady's New Version of psalms, with the New Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Statutes at large, in Three Volumes. Washington and Wingate's Abridgment of them. The Lord Clarendon s History of the Rebellion in Folio and Octavo. All which Books and Cus are likewise Sold by J. Baker in Mercers-Chapel, in Cheapside.

Lately publish'd for the Use of Schools,

Vocabularium Latiale; or, a Latin Vocabulary in two parts. The First being a Collection of the most usual and easie Latin words, whether primitive or derivative; with their signification in English, after the order of the Eight parts of Speech, giving a Specimen of each, and most naturally shewing the gender, increase, declension and motion of Nouns and Pronouns, with the Conjugation-Preterperfect Tense and Supine of Verbs both Simple and Compound. The Second, shewing the variation and declining of all the declinable parts, both regular an irregular. By Tho. Dyche , School-Master in London , Author of a new Spelling-book, entitul'd, A Guide to the English Tongue. Printed for S. Butler, at Bernard's-Inn-Gate, in Holbourn, J Holland, near St. Paul's Church-yard, and A. Collins, at the Black-Boy in Fleet-street. Price 1 s.

Just Publish'd,

The Works of the Reverend Mr. Edmund Hickeringill , Late Rector of All-Saints, Colchester . In Two Volumes. Containing, 1 The History of the Whigs their Plots, Principles, and Practices, in two Parts; being the Secret History of the Whigs, from the time of the Civil Wars, &c. 2. The horrid Sin of Man-catching, or a true Idea and Character of wicked Magistrates, Apparitors, Bumms, and Catchpoles. 3. Curse ye Meroz, a Sermon, containing the Standard of Obedience to Soveraign Power, that Kings can do no Wrong with respect to the Doctrin of Passive Obedience and Non-resistance. 4. An Apology for Distress'd Innocence, a Sermon, Preach'd on the 30th of January setting forth the restless Spirit of Republican Principles and King-killing Practices. 5. The Lay-Clergy, or Lay-Elder, a short Essay on the Lawfulness of the Clergy's exercising Temporal Offices. 6. The Trimmer's friendly Debate with the Observator, concerning the Uniformity and Benediction of Charters; and the House of Commons not a House of Courtiers. The Second Volume Contains, 1. The Black Non-conformist. 2. The Postscript to the same. 3. Some Considerations on the Nature of Marriage. 4. The Author's Thoughts on Confirmation. 5. An Essay on the Vertue of Sequestration. 6. An Epistle to the Tories. 7. The Mushroom; in answer to Mr. Drydens Satyr against Sedition. 8. A Postscript to the same. 9. The Ceremony-monger. 10. The Good-Old-Cause: or, the Divine Captain.

Memoirs of the right Villianous John Hall , the late famous and Notorious Robber. Pen'd from his Mouth some time before his Death. Containing the exact Life and Character of a Thief in General. As also a lively Representation of Newgate , and its Inhabitants, with the Manners and Customs observed there. The Nature and Means by which they commit their several Thefts and Robberies, and the Distinctions observed in their respective Functions. To which is added, the Cant generally us'd by those Sort of People to conceal their Villanies; and Rules to avoid being Robb'd or Cheated by them. Usefully set forth for the Good of the Publick, at the Instance of many honest People. The third Edition, with large Additions, and a Description of Ludgate , the two Compers, and other Prisons for Debt.

Murder within Doors: or, a War among our selves, proving there are more kill'd by the Vintners, &c. than are sav'd by the Physicians, in a Bacchanalian Dialogue, representing the Danger and Abuse of our most modern celebrated Liquors: Which will never be prevented while the Vintners deal with the Syder-Men, our Punch-Makers with the Apothecaries, and our Derby and Nottingham-Ale-Brewers with the Lime-Kilns, to the great Dishonour of the Grape, and the irreparable Disgrace of Immortal Barly. Written by a Club of - Sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster.

The wooden World dissected in the Character, of, 1. a Ship of War; 2. a Sea-Captain; 3. a Sea-Lieutenant; 4. a Sea-Chaplain; 5. The Master of a Ship of War; 6. The Purser; 7. The Surgeon; 8. The Gunner; 9. The Carpenter; 10. The Boatswain; 11. a Sea-Cook; 12. a Midship-man; 13. The Captain's Steward; 14 a Sailor. By a lover of the Mathematicks. The Second Edition, corrected and amended by the Author. Price bound, 1 s.

All Sold by B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-row.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by Benj. Bragg , at the Raven in Pater-noster-Row .

