THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who was EXECUTED at TYBURN, THURSDAY the Third of this Instant March,

BEING THE EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon . Sir , JOHN THOMPSON ,

Number. I. For the said Year.

LONDON :

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXVII.

(Price Six-pence.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. Sir John Thompson , Knt . Lord-Major of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Justice Probyn; the Honourable Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder; and the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday, the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th and 13th of December, in the Tenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Eight Men, viz. George Sutton , Robert Campbell , William Wager , alias Cockey Wager, Edward Baker , Gilbert Fruer , Peter Cross , Daniel Jenkyns , and Thomas Strafford ; and three Women, viz. Phillis Fratter , Jane Cooper and Katherine Pollard , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death. And,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. Sir John Thompson , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds; the Hon. Mr. Baron Comyns; the Hon. Mr. Justice Lee; and the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , upon Friday, Saturday and Monday, the 14th, 15th and 17th of January, 1736-7, in the Eleventh Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Six Men, viz. Joseph Herbert , James Ryan Hugh Macmahon , Gerrard Fitzgerald , James Falconer , and Garret Farrel , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death. As also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held hefore the Right Hon. Sir John Thompson , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Page; the Hon. Mr. Justice Fortescue Aland; the Hon. Mr. Baron Fortescue, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , upon Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the 16th, 17th, 18th and 19th of February 1736-7, in the Eleventh Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Four Men, viz. William Maw , Jeffrey Murrat , alias Morrat , Charles Orchard , and

John Watson ; and one Woman, viz. Mary Shrewsbery , alias Threwsberry , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were exhorted seriously to think upon the miserable Circumstances they had reduced themselves to, and to reflect upon the great Danger of departing from God and forsaking his Ways, which was the Cause that God had forsaken them and given them up unto themselves, to follow their own Hearts Lusts, and the foolish Imaginations of their own pernicious Counsels, which were the only Occasion of all those Snares and crying Sins into which they had fallen, from whence proceeded all the miserable Calamities they were then subjected to; as in old Times, the Jews, who were then God's peculiar chosen People, had the severe Judgments of Heaven inflicted upon them for the like Sins; as we see from Jer 2 19. Thine own Wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backslidings shall reprove thee; know therefore and see, that it is an evil Thing and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the Lord thy God, and that my Fear is not in thee saith the Lord God of Hosts. It was observed hence, That their wickedness and backslidings from God, were the procuring Cause of severe Judgments befalling them. 2dly, That it was their Duty to consider seriously, what an evil and bitter Thing it is to forsake the Lord our God. And 3dly, That as the want of the Fear of God precipitated Men into the greatest Sins and worst of Evils, therefore it was their Duty to despise this World with the Vanities and Evils thereof, and to study and endeavour, in their few remaining Moments, to attain the fear and love of God, in order to dispose them by the Grace of God, for the Joys of another World. They were instructed in the necessary Articles of our most holy Christian Faith, to know God, and Jesus Christ whom he hath sent. St. Jo. 17. 3.

Jane Cooper , and Mary Shrewsbury alias Threwsbury , having been convicted of murdering their Bastards, I gave them Instructions suitable to their Circumstances, and endeavoured to convince them of the Heinousness of the Crime for which they were to suffer.

I instructed them all in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments; the Obligations of the Baptismal Covenant, and the End and Design, of the Lords Supper, and earnestly advised and exhorted them to prepare for that eternal State) they were shortly to enter upon, and from whence there was no return.

In Chappel they all seem'd attentive to the Prayers and Exhortations, and such of them as could read made regular Responses. Once they laugh'd and behav'd very ridiculous Cockey Wager made an Apology that they could not help Smiling, but in the Name of the rest promis'd not to be guilty of any such frolick again. Peter Cross was very sick and indispos'd, but professed to be a true Penitent; as was also Gilbert Fruer . They did not appear affected and tender hearted as became such atrocious Sinners in their most miserable Circumstances.

Upon Monday the 28th of February, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the eighteen Malefactors under Sentence of Death, (four having died before the said Report was made) and George Sutton , Robert Campbell alias Bob the Glazier , William alias Cockey Wager Edward Baker , David Jenkins , Thomas Stafford , James Ryan , Hugh Macmahon , Garret Farrel , William Maw , Jeffery Morrat alias Murat , the Negro ) Mary Shrewsbury alias Threwsbury , and Charles Orchard , were order'd for Execution. And Phillis Fratter alias Prater , who was formerly condemned for robbing Mr. William Ryder ; Catherine Pollard alias Parlet , convicted of stealing four Silver Plates, the Goods of our Lord the King; Joseph Herbert , for stealing a Silver Mug from the Globe-Tavern in Fleet-street , Gerrard Fitzgerald , convicted with James Ryan and James Falconer , for robbing Mr. North, on the Highway, and John Watson , for breaking open his Master's ( Robert Cook ) House, and stealing a large Quantity of Plate; these received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve.

Gilbert Fruer alias Truer , who was condemned for robbing Mr. Benjamin Short , on the King's Highway, was born near Ipswich he owned he had been a rash inconsiderate Youth; that not caring to settle himself to his own Business of a Barber and Peruke maker , he enlisted

himself as a Soldier in the Foot Guards; under Sence he behav'd well, and when he was able, he constantly attended Divine Worship; but falling sick, and being unable to come to Chappel, I atended him in his Cell, and he to be truly Penitent: he owned in general he had been a very great Offender, but conceived some Hopes of Mercy and Forgiveness from God, and declared himself at Peace with all Men. His Illness continually encreasing he died in his Cell on Saturday Afternoon Jan. 8, while the rest of his Fellow Prisoners were at Publick Worship.

Jane Cooper of Hestow , convicted of murdering her Bastard Child, was about 27 Years of Age, born at Hounslow , of mean Parents, who gave her all the Education they were capable of. She informed me that she had been marry'd but her Husband dying, she went to Service , and had liv'd in credible Fas and with good Reputation to her self. She own'd she had her self wrapp'd up the Child in the Manner it was found, but she profess'd she never discern'd it had Life in it. She was very sick during her Confinement and so poor and naked, that at last she lost her Sight. She seemed not to be of a compassionate Temper but hard-hearted, and was not to be made sensible of her Crimes; yet she profess'd herself at Peace with all the World, and on Thursday Feb. 3. about 4 in the Afternoon she died.

Peter Cross , who was condemned for stealing a Mare, the Property, of William Davis , was about 30 Years old, born of mean Parents in the Country, who could give him but very little Education. He was a marry'd Man and had 2 Children; and to maintain them he followed Country Work , and sometimes the Business of a Higgler . He own'd the Mare was found in his Possession, but made many trifling Excuses on that Account. He attended publick Worship for the first 2 or 3 Days after his Condemnation, but after that, he was taken extreamly ill, and lost both his Senses and his Speech, and on Monday the 3d of Jan. he died in his Cell.

James Falconer , who was convicted with Ryan and Fitzgerald, for robbing Mr. North on the Highway, was about 38 Years of Age, born in the West of Ireland near Cork , of honest Parents, who gave him a tollerable Education, and bred him up to the Weaving Business in Dublin ; but not having full Employment, he went to France , and serv'd the French King as a Soldier in the late Wars: He said he was present at the Seiges of Fort Kehl and Philipsburgh , from which Place he deserted and got to London , about 3 Years ago, and here he follow'd labouring Business . He grew very sick and weak under his Confinement, and being of the Romish Communion , would not come to any ingenuous Acknowledgment of his Errors, only he profess'd himself at Peace with all the World: He died in his Cell on Saturday the 19th of Feb. about 6 o'Clock in the Morning.

William Wager alias Cockey Wager, was indicted with Edward Baker for robbing Mr. Samuel Lewis on the Highway, and were both found Guilty of the Indictment.

They were a second Time indicted for robbing George Sleath on the Highway, and were found Guilty of this Indictment likewise.

1. William Wager alias Cockey Wager, was about 25 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in London , who gave him good Education, and kept him at School, to Reading Writing and Arithmetick, in order to his being qualified for Business; and not neglecting his real Benefit, they instructed him in the Principles of the Christian Religion, and in the Knowledge of his Duty both to God and Man. After this, his Father who was a Butcher by, Trade, took him to his own Business, but he dying, young Wager liv'd with his Mother, who kept Newgate Market , where they had tollerable Business, and he might have liv'd honestly; but being of a perverse and idle Disposition, he could not confine himself to his Business, but got acquainted with Companions of his own Disposition, who soon hurried him to his Destruction. Drinking, Gaming, and Riot, were his chief Delights, and in this Course he continu'd, till want of Money obliged him to think of Ways and Means to support himself. His Companions being under the same Difficulties with himself, robbing upon the Highway;

was concluded upon, to be the best and speediest way of obtaining a fresh Supply; and in all Adventures and in all Occasions, Wager prov'd very bold, hardy and daring, and so frequent were the Robberies committed by him and his Gang, in the Countries about London , in Middlesex , Essex , Surrey , Hartfordshire , Buckinghamshire , &c. that in a short Time his Name and Profession were so well known, that he was obliged to go arm'd, and be always upon his Guard, for fear of being apprehended; his Name with the Names of some of his Companions having often been inserted in the publick Papers. He, and Baker his Partner, own'd they were chiefly concerned in the Robbery for which Bonner was lately upon full conviction, and Executed. He also confess'd himself to have been every atrocious Sinner in many other Respects, and he acknowledg'd that his Sufferings were most justly inflicted on him, for his Ingratitude to God and Man, and hi sinning against Light and Knowledge, since Providence had favoured him with a good Education, and which he, to his Shame and Sorrow, had altogether neglected. When he was apprehended in Epping Forest in a Barn, the Constables having been directed thither. By Horsenail the Evidence, they first took Baker with another whom they call'd their Landlord, he being the Person who harbour'd them at this place, and fearing Punishment, he slipt off, and made his Escape; Baker told them that Cockey was in a Barn just by, lying among the Hay, they went and found him there, but the Difficulty, was to seize him; he threaten'd and swore at a prodigious rate, particularly at Baker, who (he knew) had discover'd him; but then said he, adding, an Oath, we shall have the Pleasure to be both jamm'd together. They hand cuffed him, and put him on a Horse with a Man behind him, who had much ado to keep him in order; all the way as they came along towards London and New-Prison , he still continuing to blaspheme and swear at every body he met, not forgetting Baker, calling him a vile Coward, and threatening to do him a Mischief; and to make his Words good, when they were at New-Prison, having got a Knife, he cut and wounded Baker in the Face, and would have cut his Throat had he not been prevented. On Saturday the 25th of December, in Time of Worship, he fell a Laughing; I reproved him sharply, he beg'd a thousand Pardons, and promis'd better behaviour, for the future; yet at two or three other Times he behav'd indecently, and disturb'd all the rest; I exhorted him seriously to consider what he had to do, and told him he had not Man, but God to deal with; and after this he appear'd with an apparent decency. He always with some others, made regular responses, profess'd himself Penitent for all the Sins of his Life; that he believ'd in Christ our only Saviour; and died in Peace with all Mankind.

2. Edward Baker , 30 years of Age, of honest Parents in Bishopsgate-street ; who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Accompts, and instructed him in religious Principles. When of Age, his was put out Apprentice to a Weaver in Spittlefields , and serv'd out his Time faithfully and honestly. He liv'd sometime by his Business, and maintain'd so honest a Character, that he was made Sexton of Pancras and Kentish Town . He married a Wife by whom he has three Children now living and lest destitute. He kept the Adam and Eve Ale-house by Pancras Church , and liv'd in pretty good Credit. His Wife died about three years ago, and after, he fell into several Misfortunes by Suretyship, and other Debts, occasion'd by bad Company, Gaming, Drinking, and lewd Women, which forced him to leave his Business and fly from Pancras . He then wrought a little at he Business but of that he was weary, and delighting in nothing but worthless Company, and having no way to get Money, he took on with Cockey Wager, who had been older in the Trade, to rob upon the Highway, with Horsenail the Evidence, Eady who ed, and sometimes with others; he for sometime past committed a great many Robberies came to be known in Town and Cour for a notorious Thief and Robber and had a character as notorious as Wager. He behav'd well while under Sentence, and declar'd himself deeply Penitent for all the Sins of his Life; and said, that wh he was taken, he knew he was a mead Man: About the 26 or 27 of December last, while at Prayers, he behav'd very indecently, which being like to breed a Disorder among all the rest, I reproved him and others sharply; after this

he behav'd decently. He own'd that he suffered most justly according to law, and declared that he believed in Jesus Christ, as the Son of God and only Saviour of Sinners; that he was truly Penitent for all the Sins of his Life, and that he forgive all injuries, as he expected forgiveness from God.

George Sutton and Robert Campbell , alias Bob the Glazier , for assaulting James Smith , on the King's Highway, putting him in fear, &c. and taking from him a Hanger, with a Horn handle, value 20s. a Silver Watch value 5 l. a Cornelian Seal set in Gold, value 20 s. and 10 Guineas in Money, November 8th.

3. George Sutton , Twenty-three Years of Age of Honest Parents, in Town, who gave him very good Education at School, to read, write, Latin, and had him carefully instructed in Christianity. When of Age, his Parents were very willing to put him to any Employment he pleas'd and he chose that of a House-Carpenter ; at this Business he serv'd awkardly for three Years, and then wearied of any further Confinement, her went to his idle Company, who made him a Partner in all the thefts and robberies, and having inur'd himself to this way of fe he could never give it over; but despis'd all wholesome admonitions of Parents, Relations, and Friends and gave himself up to all manner o Wickedness.

He was often a Prisoner in Newgate , and most of the Prisons about Town, yet none of those Chastisements were a warning to him to forbear his wicked Courses. About a Year and seven or eight Months ago, his elder Brother John was taken up, convicted and executed for a Highway robbery. During John's Confinements his Brother George for persuading out upon the Highway, George visited etty often, and seem'd mightily concerned, and resolved against continuing in that manner of life; and when John was carried to Tyburn , George accompanied him in the ist, read to him all the way, and attended him to the last and afterwards took care of his Interment. At that Time he wept bitterly for his Brother, and solemnly protested, that he would abandon his former wicked Company and Ways, and betake himself to a religious and virtuous Life; but all these Resolutions vanished, for he had so strong a Disposition to Vice, that by no means he would forsake his old Companions and Trade. A little while after his Death, he went upon the old Course, and was taken up, convicted and transported; but George not loving the Air of Maryland , though he was sent off well provided of every Thing, yet he longed to return to his Companions in old England , and he accordingly came back again in the same Ship in which he was carried abroad, and soon joyn'd himself to his former Company and follow'd the same way of Life. The special Comrade he pitched upon, was Robert Campbel , whom they call'd Bob the Glazier , and with him he committed the Robbery on Mr. Smith, as mentioned in the Indictment, the Hanger, the Watch, and some other Things being found upon him. This Robbery and one more, wa all he had committed since his Return; but he own'd that for the Space of several Years, even while he was a Boy, he had been employed in thieving and robbing. While under Sentence, be behaved well and better than the rest of these audacious young Fellows, though with too much intrepidity and indifference, not being so concerned and so soften'd as became one in these miserable Circumstances. He was a bold, rash, unthinking young Man. He declar'd his Faith in Christ, that he sincerely repented of all the Sins of his Life, and forgave all Injuries, as he expected forgiveness from God.

4. Robert Campbel , alias Bob the Glazier , 25 Years of Age, of honest Parents, born at Portsmouth , he had good Education at School in reading, writing, and arithmetick, to fit him for Business, and he was instructed in Christian Principles, though that was what he least minded. When of Age, he was put an Apprentice to a Glazier in Bow-Street , Covent-Garden , and served his Time honestly and with Approbation. He married a Wife, who with his Mother and Sisters, often visited him while under Sentence and by whom he left three Children. He plained by way of Excuse for his Wickedness, that he could not get Money to support his Family though this was contradicted by his Friend,

who said he did not want Business nor Money, when he was Industrious and willing to work; so that his idle Disposition brought him to his fatal and disgraceful End. When first he took himself to thieving, he stole Lead off Houses, Fowls, or whatever came in his Way; but thinking this a low way of robbing, he got into the Company of the Suttons, and such others who robbed in the Streets, and on the Highways. The first Robbery he committed in the Street was with a certain Person who is gone out of the way, and the next was with George Sutton , after his coming home from Transportation, for which both of them were tryed, convicted and executed. This Robbery he confessed as it was sworn against him, and the other, but was not willing to acknowledge any more Street or Highway Robberies; though he own'd that he was a pilfering Thief it lesser Matters for a long Time past. He pretended, that he had not been wicked as many like him, but us'd to go to Church and keep an outward Decorum, 'till of late he was altogether abandon'd to bad Company. He behaved well while under Sentence, and two Days before he died, when he with six or seven others received the Sacrament very devoutly; he wept bitterly, he declar'd that he believed in Christ his only Saviour, and repented unfeignedly for all his Sins, and forgave all Men.

David Jenkins , and Thomas Stafford , for breaking and entering the House of George Dalby , and stealing a wooden Till, value 12d, and 6 Guineas, a half Guinea, and 3l. in Money, October 13.

5. David Jenkins , 15 years of Age, of mean Parents by Hyde-Park corner , had little or no Education, and what he had, improv'd to the worst of Purposes; having been a silly Mischievous Boy, intent only upon Mischief, and from his Cradle he had liv'd by thieving. He had been often in Bridewell for petty thefts and , and was a constant Grief to his Parents who though Poor, yet were honest. He a notorious Sabbath-breaker, and constantly ploy'd the Lord's Day in wicked Practices. He own'd the Crime he was convicted of, and that he went into the House or Shop, and stole the Till with the Gold and Money in it, as sworn by one of his own Partners, and others against him. He behav'd quietly and soberly, but was grosly ignorant, knowing little or nothing of God or Religion. I endeavour'd to instruct him in the most familiar and plain Way, but he was dull of hearing, slow of understanding, hard-hearted, and not accustom'd to think at all. He declar'd his Penitence, own'd that he had been a very incorrigible Boy, and died in Peace with all the World.

6. Thomas Stafford , 14 Years of Age, born of mean Parents, who gave him little of no Education. He was a silly Creature, and accustom'd to all manner of Vice. He confess'd his being concern'd with his Fellow sufferer Jenkins and Jessup the Evidence, in robbing of George Dalby , but would not acknowledge any other Robberies, tho' he could not deny his having frequently committed petty Thefts and Larcenies. He behav'd modestly and quietly, but was very poor and naked, and had a S in his Leg, which occasion'd his keeping the Cell a good Part of the Time he was under Sentence. He had us'd the Sea from a Child, and his Mother a poor Woman, who ca once or twice to see him, told me he had serv'd a Sea Captain at Chester , but about 6 or 7 Months ago he came to London , but did not go to his Father and Mother, but follow'd Jenkins and others, who led him to the Gallows. His Father and Mother not only were ignorant of then Son's being in London , but knew nothing about him till he had been 5 or 6 Weeks under Sentence; when his Mother came to Newgate enquiring after him, if there was such a Boy there, and if he was under Sentence? He said he died in Peace with all the World.

James Ryan and Hugh Macmahon of Pancras for assaulting Sarah Smith , in a certain open Field, near the King's Highway; puting her in Fear, and taking from her two Camble Cloaks, value 2 s. a Callomanco Gown, value 5 s. a Pair of Shoes, value d. a Linnen Apron, value 6 d. a Linnen Handkerchief, va

lue 3 d. The Goods of Francis Smith , and a Camblet Cloak, value 6 d. the Goods of Eunace Newman , Dec. 5.

James Ryan and Fitzgerald who is repriev'd, and Falconer who is Dead, for assaulting James North in the King's Highway, in the Parish of Pancras , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Cloth Great Coat, a Cloth Coat, 2 Handkerchiefs, a Pair of Breeches, a Holland-Stock, and 10 s. in Money, Nov. 7.

James Ryan , Garret Farrel , and Hugh Macmahon , for assaulting Edmund Robottom in a certain Field, near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Hat, value 2 s. a Peruke, value 2 s. a Cloth Coat, value 5 s. a Cloth Waistcoat, value 5 s. a Holland Shirt, value 6 s. a Pair of Stockings, value 2 s. a Pair of Shoes, value 18 d. a Pair of Buckskin Breeches, value 10 s. and 3 s. 6 d. in Money, Nov. 26.

7. James Ryan , about 36 Years of Age, born in the West of Ireland of honest Parents, who gave him indifferent Education at School, and had him instructed in Christianity, according to the Popish Way. When of Age he was not of any Trade, but did Country Work with his Father, and sometimes serv'd other People; wearied of staying at Home, he went to Sea, and serv'd as a Sailor a good Part of his Time, having been at Gibralter , up the Mediterranean, at Guinea , East and West Indies , and over most of the World; and being of a good Size for a Soldier , he went to Spain , and listed in the Walloon Guards, with whom he serv'd at the last Siege of Gibralter ; from them, after the Siege was over, he deserted, and leaving Spain , he went some Voyages to Sea, and afterwards to France, and serv'd for some Time in General Buckley's Regiment, in the late Wars at the Siege of Fort Keil and Philips-burgh , where finding there was little to be had but red hot Cannon Ball Bullets, he thought fit to desert, and then he came over to London , where he serv'd as a Labourer to Masons or Bricklayers, and at the same Time robb'd upon the Highway with some others of like Disposition; he had been a very grand Offender, as himself own'd both publickly and privately. When he was last abroad in France , he serv'd some Time, in the Duke of Berwick's Regiment, who was Chief General of the French Army. He was a very extravagant, fiery, hot-headed Man, and when before the Court at the Old-Baily he behav'd in a very strange, uncommon Manner; for upon the Tryal he behav'd very indecently, he reflected foolishly on the Evidence, and every Body who appear'd against him, and denied that the others in the Indictments were concern'd with him. He confess'd all the three Robberies he was convicted of, and how in barbarous Manner they stript naked, and threw into Ditches the three Persons, and left them in that miserable forlorn Condition, as was, sworn upon the Trial. He was of the Romish Communion , was very sick, miserable, poor and naked; he sometimes came to Chapel, and sometimes absented; when at Prayers he sate quietly, and often read a little Book. He declared his Faith in Christ, that he repented of the Sins of his wretched Life, and died in Peace with all Men.

8. Hugh Macmahon , 29 Years of Age, born in the North West of Ireland , of honest Parents, who educated him in a tollerable Manner, and taught him the Christian Religion. In the Romish Way . While he staid at Home Ireland , he did labouring Work in the Country, when advanc'd a little more in Years, he went for a Soldier , and serv'd for some Time in Spain , and leaving that Service, he went to France , where he serv'd in General Buckley's Regiment, and was advanc'd to be a Serjeant in which Station he was when he came over to England last. He was also in the late Wa at the Siege of Fort Kiel and Philipsburgh he staid above six Weeks at London , as he pretended, in his Way to Ireland , whither was going to visit his Wife and Child, and other Relations, having for that Purpose had Furloe from his Colonel or Superior Offic and at London he met with a great Number Persons of his own Country-men, and amo them O' Bryan the Evidence; he knew O' Bry in France, and at London, by coming to Room, and he reflected bitterly upon

While he was under Sentence he behav'd well, and when at Prayers he appear'd modest and quiet; he was very poor, miserable and naked. He declar'd his Faith in Christ, that he was penitent for the manifold Offences of his Life, and died in Peace with all the World.

9. Gerald Farrell , 30 Years of Age, born in the County of Kildare in the Kingdom of Ireland , of honest mean Parents, who gave him little or no Education, and what he had he made no Use of, having been of a roving loose Temper; he was not put to any Trade, but work'd as a Labourer , and about Husbandry in the Country; but growing weary of Home, he went to France , and listed a Soldier in General Ruth's Regiment, and was at the Siege of Fort Kiel and Philipsburgh , whence he deserted and came to London about three Years past, where he follow'd labouring Work under the Bricklayers; but his Misfortune was to fall into the Company of O' Bryan and his Companions, and they led him to his Destruction. He behav'd well under Sentence, and when he attended at Prayers, was very quiet, and seemingly attentive; he was very poor, naked and destitue. Ryan, Falconer, Macmahon, and Farrell were all bigotted in the Romish Way . He declar'd that he believ'd in Christ as his only Saviour; was penitent for the many Offences of his Life, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Mary Shrewsbury alias Threwsbury , for the Murder of her Male Bastard Child, by giving it a mortal Wound with a Knife in the Throat, of the Length of four Inches, and the Depth of two Inches, of which it instantly died, February 4.

She was a second Time indicted by Vertue of the Coroner's Inquest for the said Murther.

10. Mary Shrewsbury , alias Threwsbury , 23 Years of Age, of honest Parents, who gave her good Education at School, and instructed her in the Christian Religion. Her Father was a Stocking-Weaver, and when she was of Age, put her Apprentice to a Stocking-Trimmer in Wapping ; she serv'd out her Time honestly, and with approbation, and she till she was taken up, wrought at her Business and kept herself very well, and maintain'd a good Character, not being addicted to any Vices, or a loose Life; 'till of late she grew intimate with a Man in Spittlefields, who seduc'd and debauch'd her, and by whom she prov'd with Child of that miserable male Infant, whom she Butcher'd and Murder'd in a most barbarous Manner. She told nobody of her being with Child, and had provided nothing for it; and when her full Time was come, being in Lodgeings by herself, she was deliver'd of the Child, and in the dark with a Knife cut its Throat. Her Landlady coming up, carried away some Things which she threw in the Vault; then another Woman came up, who amaz'd at what she saw, she said to her that she had miscarry'd, and was a Quarter gone. After this, Suspicions encreasing in the Neighbourhood, the Overseer of the Poor came to her and enquir'd into the Matter, she alledged that the Child was thrown into the Vault, which they search'd thoroughly, but could not find: The Overseer setting a Guard upon her for that Night, next Morning brought an expect Midwife, after much searching through the House and Room, and about the Bed, and they found a great many stain'd Clouts; at last going into a Closet by the Fire, she found the Child with it's Throat cut, and the Head almost off. Mary seeing this swoon'd away, when she recover'd, the Midwife asking her how she could treat her own Child, of a good Growth, and come to it's full Time so barbarously? Mary took the whole Blame upon herself, because some suspected the other Woman to be too much concern'd in the Affair. She was kept secure 'till her Recovery, and then sent to Newgate, and at the ensuing Sessions at the Old-Bailey , this Murder was fully prov'd upon her. I representted to her the Atrociousness of such a horrid Cruelty, which she did not disown, but acknowledg'd that she was punish'd most deservedly and justly. While under Sentence she behav'd very well, and to outward Appearance was penitent, and on several Occasions, particularly when she receiv'd the Sacrament, wept and cried most bitterly. She declar'd that she hop'd for Salvation thro' the Merits of Christ's Blood and Sufferings; was sincerely penitent

for all her Sins, especially the heinous Crime of Murder and Blood-shedding, and in Peace with all the World.

Charles Orchard , of St. George's Middlesex , for assaulting Elizabeth Elly in the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, &c. and taking from her 2 s. 5 d. Oct. 26.

11. Charles Orchard , 16 years of Age, of honest Parents in Shadwell Parish, his Father dying left him young, his Mother married a Ship Carpenter who serves in a Man of War. He was at Sea on Board of the same Ship with his Father-in-law for a Year and a half; but about a Year ago, coming from the Downs to London with his Mother to visit Friends, the Ship sail'd before he return'd, and Charles since that Time liv'd at Home with his Mother, and carried a Basket about Shadwell Market , but ing into bad Company, he was soon a Partner in their Vices. He had no Learning, was groy ignorant of Religion, and tho' I endeavour'd to instruct him therein, yet he was so harden'd and accustom'd to a loose Life, that such serious Subjects had no Impression upon him. He did not deny his having been guilty of small Thefts, and he faintly denied the Robbery of which he was convicted, tho' the Proof was full against him, and had confess'd the same before the Justice, and begg'd the Woman's Pardon upon his Knees. He died a Christian, and in Peace with all Mankind.

Jeffery Morat alias Murat , (a Negro ) of St. George's Hanover-Square , for breaking and entering the House of Peregrine Bertie , Esq ; commonly call'd Marquis of Lindsey , about the Hour of Two in the Night, and stealing thence Pair of Silver Breast-Buckles, value 20 s. 2 Guineas in Money, the Property of the aid Peregrine Bertie , &c. Feb. 1.

He was a second Time indicted for assaulting Hannah Emberton , in the House of Peregrine Bertie , Esq , commonly call'd Marquiss of Lindsey , putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Stuff and Silk Pocket, value 2 d. a Silver Thimble, value 6 d. a Cork-screw, value 6 d. and Three-pence Half-penny in Money, Feb. 2.

He was a Third Time indicted for feloniously breaking and entering the said House, with an Intent the said Hannah Emberton , to kill and murther, against the Peace of our Lord the King, &c. Feb. 1.

12. Jeffery Morat alias Murat , about 16 or 17 Years of Age, was a Black born in Guinea , and could give no Account of his Country nor Parentage, only that he was brought very young to England , and happen'd to fall into a noble Family, who took good Care of him, had him educated at School, and instructed in Christianity, but he seem'd to be of a perverse unthinking Disposition, naturally vicious, and extremely wicked; for altho' he was liberally allow'd, well kept, and wanted for nothing, yet he kept the vilest Company, went to bad Houses, and lately (as he himself confess'd) abus'd and robb'd a Gentleman of a Guinea, after he had dragg'd him into an ill House, and the Gentleman, was forc'd to make the best of his Way, fearing he should be murther'd. The Account he gave of the Fact for which he was condemned was, that upon the first of Feb. last, he spoked to a Shoe-boy whom he call'd Thomas, and they staid together 'till late at Night, having agreed to break into the House of the Marquis of Lindsey; accordingly about Midnight they got into the said House, by opening up a back Window, and hid themselves till 8 or 9 o'Clock in the Morning, and then looking about, they got into some of the Rooms, and stole 2 Guineas; then the House-keeper coming in, was astonish'd to see some of the Doors open, she went to the Kitchen, where Morat the Black assaulted and endeavour'd to murder her, she struggl'd 'till they got to the Top of the Kitchen Stairs, and then he with a Poker knock'd her down, and cut her Throat with a Knife, wounding her in several Places besides, 'till at last he left her for dead; after the Gentlewoman had made most earnest Prayers and Intreaties to spare her Life, Mrs. Emberton gave this in Evidence against him, and this he did notwithstanding she knew him several Years past, the Marquiss of Lindsey's House being within a Door or two of the House of that Noble Family in which the Black served. Upon the Trial, Murat had nothing

to say in his Defence, but hanging down his Head, denyed nothing, and looked confounded, having confessed all before the Right Honourable the Lord Carpenter.

While under Sentence, he was sick all the Time, did not come often to Prayers, and at last he was so careless of himself, and grew so nasty, that scarce any body could go into the Cell. He knew little of Religion, and when I visited and exhorted him in the Cell, he acknowledged his great Sin, and that he was heartily grieved, having committed this Fact without any manner of Necessity, but merely out of a wicked develish Temper. He declared that he was a Christian, cried to God for Mercy, and was in Peace with all Men.

On Tuesday Morning the 1st of March, when the Keepers opened the Doors, he was found dead in the Cell.

William Maw , of St. Margaret's Westminster , for that he not having God before his Eyes, &c. upon Charles Dubois , did make an Assault, and him with a certain Bayonet, made of Iron and Steel, value 2 s. which he held in his Right Hand, did strike and beat, giving him one Mortal Wound in the Breast, below the Collar Bone, of the breadth of 3 4ths of an Inch, and the depth of four Inches, January the 20th, by Reason of which mortal Wound he languish'd, and languishingly liv'd from the said 20th, to the 21st of January, and then died.

He was a second Time indicted (on the Statute for stabbing) for that he not having God before his Eyes &c. On January 20th, on Charles Dubois , did make an Assault, and in the Fury of his Mind, &c. with a certain Bayonet, &c. the said Charles Dubois on the Breast below the Collar Bone did stab; he the said Charles not having any Weapon, &c. and giving the said Charles one mortal Wound, &c. (as above) of which he languished from the said 20th, to the 21st of January, at which Time, of the same Wound he died.

He was a third Time indicted by Virtue of the Coroner's Inquest for the said Murder.

13. William Maw , Twenty-seven Years of Age, of honest Parents in Gloucestershire , who put him to School and taught him to read and to write, and had him instructed in Christian Principles. When of Age, he was put to a Shoe-Maker , and followed that Business for sometime, with his Friends honestly and industriously. About seven Years ago he came to Town, and a young Woman whom he expected corning after him, he married. He listed in one of the Regiments of Foot-Guards and served about seven Years past faithfully; he lived peaceably and loving with his Wife. Upon January the 20th, he had been out with his Wife buying some Gin, and each of them carrying a small Barrel of it Home, to King-street where he liv'd; the Watchman about the Broad-way , enquiring what he had got, a Scuffle ensu'd, upon this he drew his Bayonet and stabbed one of the Watchmen , of which Wound he died next Morning. Maw not suspecting the Man to be mortally wounded, did not abscond nor fly; but the Man being dead, he was taken up next Day and committed to Newgate .

The Fact he own'd, but having had no design, he conceiv'd that it was not Murder; I told him that being convicted by his Country, he was obliged to repent as a Murderer, for whoso shedeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed. He was sick, weak, and discouraged, and kept the Cell a few Days; I visited and persuaded him to come to publick Worship. After that he constantly attended Prayers, he always behav'd well, and was devout and penitent: He hoped for Salvation, through the Merits of Christ's Blood and Intercession, and died in Peace with all the World.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ABOUT ten o'Clock they were brought of Newgate, and convey'd to Tyburn in four Carts, viz. George Sutton , Robert Campbell and Mary Shrewsbury , for the Murder of her Bastard Child. Wager, Baker, and Orchard in the second Cart. Stafford, Jenkins, and Maw the Soldier , for the Murder of the Watchman in the third Cart. And Ryan, Macmahon, and Farrel, the three Irish Men in the fourth Cart. When they came to the Place of Execution, they all appeared very devout and serious both at Prayers

and singing of Psalms; Ryan, Macmahon, and Farrel were of the Romish Communion . Macmahon had before always denied the Robberies he was Convicted of, but then putting it to his Conscience to tell the Truth before he died, he confess'd he was guilty of these and other Robberies, only alledg'd that the Evidence was wrong in some Particulars. Wager and Baker was ask'd, whether they robb'd one Mr. Tonge, a School master? They both reply'd that they knew nothing of it. All the rest of them adher'd to their former Confessions, and added no more, but that they hoped that God would have Mercy upon their Souls. After I had left them, they desir'd a few Moments to Pray by themselves, which being granted, Wager with an audible Voice read to them all, who were very attentive. They went off the Stage frequent praying to God for Mercy, and cried to the Lord Jesus Christ to receive their Spirits.

Jeffery Morat the Black , was brought after them in a Cart, to be carried with William Maw to be hung in Chains upon one Gibbet, at a place call'd Shepherd's-Bush near Kensington Gravel Pits .

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

IT being apprehended that the Publick would be desirous of knowing the Causes which drew on the Misfortunes of the Malefactors executed on Thursday last; some extraordinary Pains has been taken to collect such Transactions as are most remarkable in the Lives of these unhappy Persons, and which might be most likely to give Satisfaction.

George Sutton , of whom the Reader has already had some Account, was a young Fellow unhappy in his Family and Education, and to this, his ill Courses may in some Measure attributed.

His own Brother John Sutton , was execu at Tyburn on Wednesday the 4th of June 1735 for robbing Mr. Powers on the Highway, and taking from him a Silver Watch, a Chain and Seal value 3 l. 9 s. May 13, and this unhappy Criminal we are now speaking of, rode in the same Cart to the Execution of his Brother. This very melancholy Instance of the Depravity Humane Nature, and a sad Proof, that wh Persons have contracted vicious Habits, and leagu'd themselves with Persons of their own Stamp, no Prospect of a fatal Catastrophe, however near or certain, nor any Examples, however terrible, are able to deter from the Commission of Facts, the Consequence of which must inevitably be Ruin, Misery and Destruction.

This George, of whom we are speaking, has often been committed to Newgate , and has been frequently visited there by a very near Relation, who instead of admonishing him to avoid those Courses he was engaged in, always reproach'd him for want of Spirit and Courage and used to be very angry with him for being committed for paltry trifling Robberies; telling him Watches and Snuff-boxes, Handkerchiefs and the like, were scandalous Things to be confined for; advising him when he got at Liberty again to do something remarkable, that the World might talk of him: And urging him, in the next Fact to behave like a Man, and not like a pusillanimous Fool, be hang'd for Trifle. If (continu'd his Adviser) you would shew your self a Man, hire a good Horse, and procure a Pair of good Pistols,-then turn out, and shew your self a brave Fellow. These repeated Instructions, from one under the strongest Ties of Nature to promote and rejoice in his real Interest and Advantage, were no doubt strong Encouragements to him, to proceed from one Crime to another, for the greater the Crime, and the more daring and horrid the Villany, the more likely he was to meet with Commendation and Applause. Thus this kind Adviser of his, has in some Measure been Cause of his ignominious End.

Unwillingness to take Pains for an honest Support led this Wretch into criminal Courses: Extravagant and exorbitant Expences tempted him, (while a Youth) to commit frequent Robberies, to support his profuse Way and Manner of Living: Neither his own frequent lucky Escapes from Justice, nor the Example of his ther, who was hang'd before his Face, had y Influence on him; but from the Time that abandon'd himself to an infamous criminal Way of Life, he gave a Loose to his Inclinations, and fouander'd away what he got with View of plundering for more: Consideration and Reflection were entirely thrown off, from a harden'd Conscience proceeded his cking and terrifying Audacity.

Nothing (to use the Malefactor's own Words) ore dangerous to us young Fellows, than Company of those odious shameless common Wenches, who frequent our Company, and upon us to partake of our Plunder. These Wretches do all that in them lies to stifle all morse that may happen to arise in our Minds. , in order to gratify their Lusts and satisfy Extravagance, they excite us to commit imes of the most horrid Nature; and in their pers they are generally much more cruel bloody than Men. Their Advice is, alys, to make sure Work, to act safely, and ent Tales from being told, and to kill if we pursu'd. They always partake with us in Debauches; they get drunk as well as we, are common to the whole Gang; yet, if can get any thing by it, they will be the that discover and betray us. And in this spect our Male Companions are pretty much our Females, for oftentimes, even when are eating, drinking and carousing together hearty Friends, we are contriving and designing to betray and hang one another.

This unhappy Wretch declared, that he could leave the World without giving an Account of the Life he had led for many Years, with rest of his Brethren. Although (says he) are generally to corrupted from our Childhood that we have no Sense of Duty to God Man, nor the least Regard to Virtue, Honour or Honesty; yet we always have a Hea on our Spirits, and are never without certain painful Apprehensions, which hang upon our Minds so constantly, that we never can enjoy any Ease or Quiet, till we have thoroughly heated our selves with Liquor, and till we are (what we call half Seas over) with Who and Confederates; nor can we sleep sound, unless we reel to Bed. If we go abroad in the Day-time, honest Men may easily know us to be Rogues by our Faces; and our suspicions fearful Countenances are sufficient at any Time to discover us. I have known a Brother Thief by his Looks, by his often turning back, and his sculking thro' narrow Lanes and Alleys, tho' I have not been acquainted with him. When we have gotten a Booty, we divide it equally among our Companions and Mistresses, for every one of us has a Wench, that he calls his own; but when we have a Mind for Variety, we change them among our selves, and they are common to us all. We have particular Houses that entertain and harbour us, and in Cases of Difficulty, or when we apprehend Danger, in these Houses we are conceal'd; and by way of Recompence to the Master or Mistress of the House, we always allow them a Snack in our Gains; and they knowing our Manner of Life, make us pay treble the Value of every Thing we have of them. We have Receivers in all Parts of the Town for the Pla Watches, Rings, Snuff-Boxes, &c. which we steal; but these People seldom give us above a third Part of the Value of the Goods. I have seen a Tankard worth 15 Pounds sold for Five Guineas; and a Gold Watch of the Value of 12 Guineas, sold for Four. This is a true Account of the Life I have led: A Life more miserable than that of the poorest Labourer, who toils for 4 d. a Day; yet such is the Force of Habit, that tho' I am sensible of all this, yet sure I am, if I was set immediately at Liberty, or could make my Escape from the Gallows, I should not be able to refrain from the same Courses, but should instantly return to my old Way of Life again.

George Sutton being asked how he returned from Transportation, he said, he paid for his Passage, and so was set ashore in Bappahanack River , near a little Town call'd Hobbs Hole in Virginia ; and having carry'd Money out with

him, and wanting for nothing, he travell'd from thence Williamsburg , and so to Philadelphia ; he went on Board Capt. Lindsey, and came over to Dover . Returning to his Friends again, they perswaded him to go to Holland, but he refused, unless they would consent that his Brother John's Wife should go with him: This they agreed to, in order to get him out of the Way again; and his Mother having bought him and his new Lady some Cloaths and Necessaries, went with them to Gravesend ; there she gave them a Sum of Money to employ in Holland. But they, having got what they could from the old Woman, gave her a Slip, and up they came again to London directly to spend what they had got; and no sooner was it gone, but George felt to his old Trade to supply himself; and the Robbery which he suffer'd for was tho first he committed since his Return. He said he could have liv'd very well in Philadelphia , and might have done (he believed) well in Holland, if his Wife would have suffered him to have gone. She, since his Confinement, call'd one Goodman her Husband, and was try'd with him last Sessions; he for robbing Mr. Gearing, and she as an Accessary to that Robbery, and were both acquitted.

Wager. This unhappy Person, during the Time of his Confinement, after Sentence, was generally brisk and chearful, and seem'd but very little concern'd at the Prospect of that ignominious Death he was to suffer: And this Temper he maintain'd to the last.

On Sunday Dec. 19. in the Evening, a Gentleman visited him in his Cell, not out of Curiosity, but purely with a Design to make him serious, and bring him to a Sense of his Condition. As soon as the Gentleman enter'd, he fell a Laughing, for which, being gravely reprov'd, he begg'd Pardon, and said, Sit I do assure you I can't help it, 'twas always my natural Inclination; and when am put in the Cart and am going to be hang'd, I shall do the same. He was asked, whether the Consideration of his unhappy Circumstances, and the Thought of what would be the End of this his Confinement, did not give him some Un; No, says he, - What signifies it now. If I was to spend my Time over again, I think I would sooner take a Brush and a Basket, and get my Living by Blacking Sh, than live my former Life; but what's done can't be undone; so what signifies plaguing my self about it.

During his Confinement in the Cell, he was too senseless of his Condition, and instead of improving his Time to his own Advantage, he employ'd himself in drawing with Chalk, upon the Walls, the Picture of Horsenail the Evidence, hanging upon a Gibbet, and underneath he had wrote, Thou Rogue, this will be thy Fate. On another Part of the Wall he drew his own Picture, and that of his Companion Baker hanging likewise upon a Gallows, and under wrote the Year and Day of the Month they were try'd, and the Day they received Sentence of Death. On another Part he had drawn himself and Baker robbing 'Squire Jones; the Squire in the Middle, and Baker, and Wager on each Side, accosting him with  D - n you Sir, stand and deliver your Cly; if you refuse, shoot you this Moment thro' the Head, for are Gentlemen not to be trifled with.

In this Manner he diverted himself to last; and after the dead Warrant came down and he was informed he was included in it, kept the same Temper, and entertain'd himself with the Fate of his Fellow Suffere He on Tuesday last that Morat the Negro was dead is Prison, and had escap'd hanging, upon which he set himself immediately to work, and drew him likewise against the Wall, hanging upon Gibbet; and that he might be right as to Colour of his Man, he drew him with coal.

As the Time drew near for his Execution, all his Concern was, that he might have a proper Place in the Cart; he said he was a Freeman of London , and on that Account he should insist (he said) upon taking the Right Hand the Cart.

He was asked, whether he was concern'd i Mr. Hasswell's Robbery he said he was, Baker was not present at that Juncture; he in Fig-Lane. He said he knew the very M that had Mr. Hasswell's Watch and Ring; himself had pawn'd the Watch for 22 s.

since his being taken up, this Man desir'd to know where it was pawn'd; he happen'd (he said) to blab, and tell him; so the Man fetch'd it from pawn, and like a Scoundrel as he was, he sent him no more upon the Account, than 10 Shillings.

The same Night that Mr. Lewis was robb'd, Wager, Baker and Eadey, were riding up a Lane, not far distant from the Place where they robb'd him; and a four-wheel'd Chaise turning a Corner into the Lane, they resolv'd to rob it. They had no sooner given the Word, to make the Driver stop, but 10 or 11 Horsemen, coming from the Races, turned out from the same Corner; they were terribly surprized; at last thought their best Way would be to let the Chaise go off, and attack the Horsemen. The Man that drove the Chaise seeing them in some Disorder, whipp'd his Horses, and drove so violently against Baker, that he was knock'd Horse and Man into a Ditch. However, they made him go off, and up they rode Pistol in Hand among the Horsemen, and robbed every Man of them. From this Company they took about 4 l. and Eadey fancying one of their Horses, he made the Rider dismount, and up he got himself, and rode off with him; as they were going home with their Booty, riding briskly along with his new Horse, which prov'd to be blind, he ran again a Post, and down came he and his Horse to the Ground. This Evening they had not been out above an Hour and a half, yet they brought home to their Rendezvous, near Hornsey-Lane , 14 l. at which Place they had spent 50 l. in one Month's Time.

He said, that the Time he was taken he had two fine Horses, one of which he and his Companions had stolen at Hackney , and the other at Cambridge ; one of them he delivered to Birch, which was a very good one, and he suppos'd some of his Companions had got the other. When Birch was taken at Grovesend, he rode a Horse which was stolen out of a Field behind that Town, and which Wager had drove before him from thence. He said that neither he nor his Companions were ever without 5 or 6 good Horses; for whenever they out upon their Adventures, if they saw a good Horse, they must have him; and they had a bit of Ground, which they hired of a Farmer, where they used to keep them, and the Farmer had an Allowance from them for looking after, them, and keeping them always fit for immediate Service.

Wager, and his Companion Baker, having robb'd a Lady in her Chariot upon Finchley-Common , of 30 s. in a Yellow Purse, after the Robbery they went to a Publick House there, and drank 6 Bottles of Wine; then Wager went to Bed in the same House, and being informed next Morning that the Lady knew him, and that she liv'd at Coney Hatch , he had the Assurance to go directly to her, and desired her not to appear against him: She, after giving him some Advice, promis'd she would not; upon which he returned to his Companion, and gave him an Account of his Success with the Lady: But before they got out of the House, the Landlord, who knew their Business, came running in, and informed them, that 5 Men on Horseback were in Pursuit of them; and by G-d, Cockey, says he, you are set. Wager looked out and saw them coming, and one of them rode into a Pond at a little Distance from the House to water his Horse; then Wager call'd to Baker, and bid him get ready, for they were all like to be mill'd; Baker happen'd to be drunk and desperate, so he drew his Cutlass and run to the Pond, and struck the Horse with his Weapon, swearing bitterly he would mince them all; and he so terrify'd both Horse and Rider, that away swam the Horse quite over the Pond, and the rest of them we bully'd off some Distance from us. They did not think it safe to return into the House, these 5 Men being in View, and the Dispute they had had with them had so much alarm'd the Country, that there was above an Hundred People out after them; therefore, in the Sight of them all, they mounted their Horses, and took the nearest Way to Whetstone , the Multitude following us, yet none of them had the Courage to attack us, or come near enough to take us. Wager perceiving this, stopp'd in the open Road, and call'd out to a Publick House for half a Pint of Shrub, which was brought him, and which he and Baker drank off. When they

came to Whetstone , the People still following them at a Distance, and out of the Reach of their Pistols, Wager stopp'd at a Shop in the Town to have a Lash put upon his Whip; when it was done, he told the Man he would pay him the next Time he came that Way; and then rode off towards the Turnpike, and in their Way thither an old Woman must needs be so curious as to look out of her Window to see them as they rode by; Wager rode up to the House and reprimanded her, in his proper Dialect, and with the But-end of his Whip broke all her Windows, to teach her more Modesty. When they got to the Turnpike, there stood a Man ready to take them; but they rode up with cock'd Pistols in both their Hands, and swore they'd blow his Brains out; but, notwithstanding those Threatnings, the Man struck at Wager with a Pitch-fork, and wounded him in the Thigh. This obliged them to turn down a Lane towards East Barnet ; and finding themselves still to be hotly pursu'd, they took Shelter in a Wood; but they had not been there long, before all the Keepers were out after them; when they came up to them in the Wood, Wager and Baker turn'd upon them, and the Sight of the Pistols put the brave Keepers to Flight. Then they cross'd the Forrest, and made the best of their Way to Endfield Marsh . Here they found the Pursuit still hot after them, so they were obliged to ride eleven Miles farther, and were all that Day and all the next Night on Horseback; yet they were not tired, for if their Horses did not tire, they never should.

He said, tho' Horsenail had us'd him ill, in turning Evidence against him, yet he ought to have consider'd, that he was the Person that put him into a more Gentleman-like Way of subsuting himself than he was in before; for he (Horsenail) and Eadey us'd always to rob meanly on Foot, (which Wager scorn'd to do) that he provided them with Horses, and equipp'd them for Highwaymen, which was in August last, they never having got any Thing on the Back of a Horse till that Time.

Wager being once inform'd that about ten Miles out of Town he might speak with one 'Squire Jones, and an Exciseman on the Road, and get from them a Booty of about 70 l. took Horse and went out to meet them. The Exciseman was a stout Mans 6 Foot 2 Inches high, and he always rode a Horse worth Guineas. We heard of them (said he) Waltham Turnpike, and soon came up with them. Mr. Jones was in his Chariot, with the Exciseman, and Mr. Jones's Footman rode the Exciseman's Horse. We were but three of in Company, myself, Baker and Horseman However, we resolved to attack them: So Baker went up to the Heads of the Horses, and I rode to the Chariot Door, and bid them give me all their Money; Mr. Jones jump'd out his Chariot and fir'd among us, hap-hazard; he miss'd us, but he shot the Exciseman's Horse dead under his own Footman. I swore I would shoot him thro' the Head, and he said, G- d-n you, shoot and you will, I will not robb'd. We were under some Apprehension this Time that we should come badly off, when Mr. Jones fired, a Ball whizz'd close Horsenail, and he cry'd out, - by G-d I am shot, and away he gallop'd as hard as could; but Baker and I stood to them aga and attempted to rob them; this was about o'Clock at Night; we got about 6 or 7 Guineas from them, and a Watch. Baker fris them on one Side of the Chariot and I on the other, but we could make no more of them for it being near the Turnpike, there was an Hundred People after us immediately; so we did not think it safe to stay any longer with them, only at parting I bid them to home and tell their Spouses they had been robb'd, and by a little Boy whose Name was Cockey. Find we were like to be warmly pursu'd, we rode the Chace, and shelter'd ourselves for some time in a Wood; and when we thought the Hurry was a little over, we ventured out; and th very Night we committed two or three Robberies in our Way to London ; I put up my Horse when I got to Town at the Green Dragon in Whitechapel : And on the Sunday following, when I sent for him, in order out again, they sent me Word that my Horse had been hurt, and that he was dead. I very sorry for my Horse, for I have often him 40 Miles a Day; and that very Day

robb'd Mr. Jones I believe I had rode him more. When we attempted Mr. Jones and the Excise-man, we had a Design to have carry'd off the Horse that was kill'd, because we knew him to be worth a great deal of Money. We often had Occasion to ride hard, when we were pursued; and we knew the Exciseman's Horse would go an Hundred Miles in 16 Hours, with he Master's heavy Weight upon his Back, and he would have been worth an Hundred Pounds to us; he would have been of Service to us even in this Robbery, if we could have rode away with him, for in 3 Minutes Time the Alarm of Highwaymen was all over the country. I could (said he) have shot them all, but I never kill'd any Body in my Life, nor ever fir'd a Pistol above twice, and then with no Design to till any Body. Indeed, when I was taken in the Barn, I can't say whether I should not have done some Execution among 'em, if I had had Room and Fire-Arms; but I never carry'd any about me, but when I went out upon Business. Baker us'd always to carry a Blunderbuss under in Coat, and he might (when we were taken) have kill'd them all Four as easy as I can kiss my Hand, for they were in a Pannick, notwithstanding there were so many of them when they ed me.

After I had committed many Robberies, my Friends advised me to get over to Holland; and having got a little Money together, about 28 l. I agreed to go; and, in order thereto, I went in Horseback from London to Stirbitch , and from Stirbitch I intended to go to a Place called Marsland in Norfolk, by the Sea-side; and here I knew I should meet with a good many Smuglers, with whom I was acquainted, and with whom I should find a safe Passage; but meeting with a certain Person on the Road, I told him I was resolved to leave my Trade and all my Companions; and I informed him, I was then going to Holland; he dissuaded me from the Design, and begg'd of me (if I was resolved to ) to bear him Company to Stirbitch Fair , and see what he could do there before I went. I consented to bear him Company, and as we were upon the Road, he told me he had but little Money, for he had entrusted a Man to sell for him 3 very good Horses, (which he had stolen) and the Man was run away with all the Money; so I sent him 7 l. out of my Pocket, and went with him from Stirbich to Haverton , and as we met with Nothing all the Way we came, I was to go with him to London to be paid my 7 l. But a little on this side Harlow, who should we meet, but Horsenail and Baker? They were out upon the Game, and they perswaded me not to entertain any Thoughts of leaving my old Friends, and with a little Perswasion they got a Promise from me not to go to Holland, and I agreed to ride in their Company again.

We had so little Business (in our Way) after this, that I spent 8 l. before I received a Penny. I think we did no Business for a Fortnight; but Money falling short, I summon'd my Company together, and out we fally'd for a Supply, and that very Night we made 14 l. from one Company on Horseback in Hartfordshire , not far from Ware . I took them to be all Malsters, and the lying Rogues put us off with 15 s. at first, and said that was all the Money the whole Company was worth; but I searched them, and we collected about 14 l. from them.

The last Robbery I committed with Horsenail was on Finchley-Common , where we got five Moidores, five Guineas, thirty-six Shillings in a Cloth Bag, and a Silver Watch. And Horsenail broke the Man's Head with the But-end of his Whip, because he told us he had no Money, charging him to remember telling Lies for the future. We generally went out two and two, 2 went one Road, and 2 another, and what we got we always honourable Shared, and never (I believe) play'd Sink'em upon one another: We were always upon Honour.

We have made so good a Hand of our Business, that I believe I may say twenty Watches have been pawn'd and sold upon Account of the Company, in six Weeks Time, and among them, we generally had two or three Gold ones. But Bonner's Trouble began to make me look about me, and from that Time, I seldom or never was to be seen in London; but hid my self in Barns and Stables when we come off the Road, and never appear'd but upon Business.

And from one of my hiding Places I was taken, and brought to Town: if Baker's Horse

had not unfortunately wanted Shooing, the Thief-takers might have search'd the Barn long enough before they had found me: For that very Morning I got up at four o'Clock, and he and I were to have gone out to have spoke with the Higglers; but when we came to look at our Horses, Baker's Horse's Shoes were out of Order. While we were talking about this, we saw a Man in the Field; I bid Baker lock me in the Stable, and Baker set the Man's Brother (at the House to which the Barn belonged) to watch when the Coast was clear, that I might come in to Breakfast, for the Tea-kettle was upon the Fire, and Baker and I were to return to Breakfast after we had look'd at our Horses. Baker and he were coming to let me out of the Barn (or Stable) and while they were in the Field, they saw the Thief-takers coming up to them: The Man made his Escape, and Baker might have done the same, if he had not been a Fool, for he saw them long enough, before they were upon him, and he was arm'd; but he let them take him, and basely told them, that I was in the Barn; so up they came, and lifted the Door off the Hinges; I heard them before they got in, and hid my self in a Place like a Hay-lost, and cover'd my self with Hay. They hunted about above half an Hour before they found me, and when I was discovered, they were afraid to take hold of me; one said, do you seize him, and another, do you, and they all of them trembled and were frighted out of their Wits. Gentlemen says I, if you want me I'll come down, they told me I was the Person they wanted, so I came down and they seiz'd me; but if I had any Arms, they should not have come near me.

Cockey Wager before his Execution, own'd he had been concerned in some Robberies with Thomas Taverner , who was executed July 9, 1734, for robbing Mrs. Russel on the Highway.

About five in the Evening the Day before he died, his Wife and a Child came and took their last Farewell of him, in a very moving Manner; abundance of Tears were shed on both Sides, and she declared that all the two Years they had been married together, she had not one Hour's Comfort; that she very seldom had any of his Company, and sometimes after a short transitory Visit, was many Months before she saw him again. They parted in a tender Manner, he blessed them both, and pray'd God to be their Protector when he was no more.

About nine Days before the dead Warrant came down, two Women came to enquire for James Ryan , and one of them said she was his Wife. One of the Keepers informing him that his Wife desired to see him, he asked which of his Wives it was; but however, says he, let her come in. When she came into his Cell, he affected not to know her, and said she was not in the Number of his Wives. She begg'd of him not to forget her, and said, don't you remember we were married in Shoreditch about five Years ago, and that I have had two Children by you; she cryed bitterly, and told him, she alone was his lawful Wife, and that she had suffered a great deal upon his Account. Well, well (said he) have you brought me any Money? She said no, she had no Money at all then, but would bring him some next Morning. He d - d her for a drunken B-h, and bid her be gone, for she was none of his Wife, nor did he desire any of her Company, unless she brought him some Money. O! Jemmy (said she) have you forgot your carrying me to French Flanders, and cutting my Throat there? don't you remember you were frighted out of your Wi, when you thought you had kill'd me? don't you call to Mind, your striping me almost naked, and turning out of the Regiment, because I could not turn Catholick? He said it was a d - d Lye, and that he knew nothing of the Matter, but the Woman shew'd the scar in her Throat, and said he did it with his Knife. But though he would not know any thing of her this Time, yet she came again next Morning with some Money for him, and then they agreed a little better together.

When he was at the Bar, he own'd Cole (the Woman that was tried with him as an Accessary) for his Wife; but while he was under Confinement, several Messages and letters (mighty full of Love) came from other Wi but it was not thought proper to teize him, under his Circumstances with any more of them.

The following LETTER was sent to one Richard S - h, near Moor-fields.

' I Hope my Penitence will attone for my Sin ' to God, as my Death will satisfy the ' Law, but considering how much you have ' to do with my Crime, it will certainly become you to lay to Heart my Punishment. ' Altho' the Law hath taken hold of me only; ' yet God will punish you if you do not sincerely repent, being the Author of my Destruction; God is merciful, and to his Mercy ' I trust, but he will have Mercy only on the ' Penitent, of which you have need to think ' as well as I. Let my miserable and shameful Death be a Warning to you, and make ' you more careful of your Actions in the latter Part of your Life, than you have been in ' the Beginning of it. More of my last Moments I cannot spare; and therefore conclude ' my self,

Yours in Death,

MARY SHREWSBURY .

The following PAPER was design'd to have been spoken by Mr. BAKER, at the Place of Execution; but there being so much Noise and Disturbance that he could not.

Good People.

' IT is a Custom, I have observ'd, for us unfortunate Persons, who are condemn'd by ' the Laws of their Country, to yield up their ' Lives as an Attonement for the Facts they ' have committed, and are Convicted of. You ' see me before you, who have been a notorious Sinner, now a miserable Object of Shame, ' ready to die by the just Sentence of human ' Law, and on the brink of another World, ' where I am to appear before a great Judge, ' unto whom all Hearts are open, all Offences ' known, and from whom nothing can be conceal'd; pity my Condition, pray for my Pardon, and let the Sight of my Death work ' serious Thoughts and unfeigned Repentance ' in your selves.

' It were needless to trouble you, and perplex ' my self with Repetitions of those, Crimes, ' which in the Course of a Life I have committed; it is sufficient that I own the Commission of that Fact for which I die, acknowledge the Justice of that Doom which ' sent me hither, and die in perfect Peace and ' Charity with all Men.

' In the Course of my Follies, as other Men ' have done, I have proceeded from one Vice ' to another, from Iniquity unto Iniquity, untill the Justice of Providence brought this ' heavy, this mortal Evil upon me. Many ' who are Spectators of my unhappy Death, ' may be Practicers of the same Sins which ' have stain'd my poor Soul, and they would ' do well to reform by my Example, for this ' Purpose I am brought hither, and that my ' Death may answer this Purpose, I pray with ' my last Breath; and therefore I trust the ' Wisdom and Goodness of God will sanctify ' to me this dismal End, by making it a Warning to others.

' Particularly, I wish the Ignominy of my ' Fate may make proper Impressions on him ' who was the Partner of my Crime, tho' he ' has been fortunate enough to escape being the ' Partner of my Punishment; let this be perpetually a Memorial unto him of God's Mercy ' towards him, and may he improve the remaining Part of his Days in the Service of ' his Creator, and grateful Acknowledgment ' of his Favour towards him; otherwise the ' making an ill Use of this Blessing will augment his Offences, as persevering in that Course ' will finally bring on Ruin, which the Lord ' of Mercy avert! There is nothing now remains, but that trusting in the infinite Mercy ' of God, and in the Merits of my Saviour, ' I submit to what my own evil Deeds have ' subjected me to. Once more I humbly and ' earnestly entreat the Prayers of all good Christians for my departing Soul, and that when ' I am dead, they will suffer the Memory of ' my Crimes to die with me. Lord have ' Mercy on me, Christ have Mercy on me, ' and receive my poor departing Soul.

Cells in Newgate , March 2. 1736.

EDWARD BAKER .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is Published, (Recommended to all Devout Persons for the present Season) Printed on a large Letter, the Sixth Edition, of

SACRAMENTAL DEVOTIONS, and suitable Meditations, adapted to the Communion Office Compiled out of the Church-Liturgy, and many other eminent Tracts of Devotion, for Private Use.

This in Remembrance of me, 1 Cor. xi. 24.

Compiled by the late eminent Mr. Colston, the worthy Brother of the ever memorable Mr. Colston of Bristol, for his own private Use.

Revised by James King , A. M. late Preacher of the New Chapel in Long-Acre .

Printed for R. and J. Hazard, against Stationers-Hall, near Ludgate.

Where may be had,

The Holly Week Or, Paion Week before Easter is Meditations, &c. on the last Sufferings of Our Saviour Jesus Christ, price sticht. 3 d.

2. The Church of England Man's private Devotions, being a Collection of Prayers, out of the Common Prayer Book to which is added: The Feasts and Fates of the Church of England explain'd, price 1 s. bound.

3. The History of the Bible, with 200 Copper-Plates, price 2 s. bound.

To be SOLD,

At POWELLS painted Floor Cloth Warehouse, and Turner's Shop, against Charles-Court, near Hungerford-Market in the Strand, London.

THE best of painted Floor-Cloths of all Sorts and Sizes, ready made, with the most beautiful Carpet Colours, and other very curious Figures, done to the greatest Perfection. They are in Oil thorough dry, and well harden'd on the best of Cloth, that may be depended on for their being thorough good in every Respect. Likewise listed Carpets, Hair cloths, Matting, and all sorts of Turnery Wards, sold Wholesail and Retail.

Also fine Leghorn and all sorts of Hats.

This Day is Publish'd.

In two neat Pocket Volumes, adorn'd with Cuts and Engraven,

(Price 5 s.)

MOGUL TALES, or Dreams Men awake; Being Stories told to divert the Grief of the Sultana's of Guzarat for supposed Death of the Sultan. Now first translated into English from the French of the celebrated Guelldite. With a prefatory fulness of Romances.

In pleasing Tales the artful Sage can

Bules how in happiness and Ease to live?

Can ew what Good should most attract the

And how our Woes we from our Vices find:

Delighting, yet instructing, this our Youth,

Who catch at Fable - how to gather Truth.

Printed, and Sold by John Applebee , in Bolt-Co in Fleet-Street , and E. Symon, near the Royal change, Cornhill.

Where may also be had,

In Two Volumes Octavo, Price 14 s.

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720 for the present Time chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent convicts. These Trials, &c. are not to be met with other Collection.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trials; among which are upwards of seventy for Murder, near Sixty of Whores for privately stealing, upwards of one Hundred for the Highway Thirty for Rapes; the rest being for Frauds Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy Bigamy, Shop lifting, Riots, Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single &c. &c. &c.

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of Indictments, and other Persons concern'd tions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining the Generality of Readers; and every Number tains more in Quantity, and is cheaper than thing ever publish'd this Way.

