THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were Executed on Thursday the 3d of this Instant November, 1726, at Tyburn.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir FRANCIS FORBES , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Honourable the Lord Chief Justice Raymond, the Honourable Mr. Baron Price, John Raby , Serjeant at Law , and other his Majesty's Justices of Jail Delivery, and Oyer and Terminer aforesaid, together with his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the said City of London, and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, being the 12th, 13th, 14th, and 15th of October, 1726, in the Thirteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Eight Persons, viz. Henry Jones , Joseph Smith , William Marjoram , Robert Rose , Anthony Drury , Matthew Harday, and Thomas Hide , and one Woman, Sarah Sattarfield , were convicted of capital Offences, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

While under Sentence, these who attended in Chapel, to outward appearance, seem'd to be very serious and attentive both to the Prayers and Exhortations, Anthony Drury frequently showing his great Concern, as if he had been in agonies of Mind, Marjoram also being at all Times mightily affected, as was Matthew Hardy , tho' he had pretty good assurances of a Reprieve or Pardon; the other two, Joseph Smith and Sarah Satterfield were a little more Hard-hearted; Henry Jones , when present, wanted not outward signs of Devotion, but most part of the time he was confin'd in the Hold, by reason of Weakness and Indisposition, inclining also to the Roman Catholick Principles; Robert Rose , an infirm, old Man, till the Report was made, came not to Chapel but once or twice, being constantly afflicted (as he said) with heavy Sickness, but declar'd himself very penitent, ingenuously confessing his Faults and Crimes, when I visited them in the Hold; As did also Thomas Hide , who on the Monday, being the second Day after his Sentence, fell into a violent high Fever, and lost his Senses, yet when I visited him in this miserable Condition in the Hold, altho' he did not know me at first, yet as I was praying for him, recovering his Senses a little, he comply'd with the Worship, and as I was going away he express'd his gratitude, by praying God to bless me twice or thrice, not being able to speak any more; and the same Night at Midnight, after he had praised God by singing Psalms, and making Responses in the Devotion, as in a recommendatory Prayer for him they were praying the Lord Jesus to receive his Soul, and at these Words (as I was told) he gave up the Ghost, being Thursday the 21st of October.

I instructed them from Col. 2. 6. As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. From which Text I took occasion to explain to them the necessity of Faith in Christ, which must not be a dead Faith, but attended with good Works, bringing forth manifold Fruits unto new obedience, Holyness and Virtue, not consisting in empty speculative Notions, as some seem to explain it, but affecting the heart with Heavenly divine Thoughts, truly becoming God and Religion, and making reformation upon the whole Man, so that he becomes wholly a new Creature, Holy in Heart and Life, dedicating himself without Reserve, Soul and Body, unto the Service of God. From Acts, 3, 19. Repent ye therefore and be converted, that your Sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord; they were taught the nature of true Repentance, which consisteth partly in an hearty unfeign'd Sorrow for Sin, not because of the Inconveniences and Calamities it brings upon us; but because of the Offence thereby given to Almighty God, in whom it is we live, move, and from whom we have all our Being, who is daily loading us with his Benefits, and preventing us with his Blessings; and therefore should we be grieved because we have offended our good and gracious God, such a tender, loving, and indulgent Father: But I show'd 'em that true Repentance mainly consisted in forsaking all Sin without exception, especially those Sins which are more heinous in the sight of God than others, and for which Men void of Virtue and goodness commonly come to Shame and Disgrace;

and as by Repentance they must forsake Sin, so as to loath, detest and abhor themselves in Dust and Ashes because of it; and told them, that they must turn to God with all their Heart, whereas formerly they had been the Servants of Sin unto Unrighteousness, henceforth they must become the obedient Servants of Righteousness unto Holiness, approving 'emselves with Consciences void of Offence towards God and towards Man; and resolving by the Grace of God, if they had been to continue any longer in this World, to become new Creatures, having their Conversation in Heaven, looking unto Jesus the Author and finisher of our Faith, &c. They were also instructed in the nature of the Christian Sacraments; and how greatly they had been guilty of breaking their baptismal Vows, particularly, in committing those heinous Sins, of robbing other Men of their Goods and Properties, which now brought them into much Shame, and loaded 'em with many Sorrows and anguish of Mind: I exhorted them to prepare for receiving the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, as a Pledge and assurance of their coming to everlasting Life, if they sincerely repented of all their Sins, believing in our Lord Jesus Christ their only Saviour; and from these Words, St. Luke 22. 19. This do in Remembrance of me, &c.

Upon Tuesday the 25th of October, the Report of the Eight Malefactors under Sentence of Death was made to his Majesty in Council, when ( Thomas Hide , being dead in the Hold some Days before the Report was made) five of them receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve, viz. Henry Jones , William Marjoram , alias Huggidie , Robert Rose , Matthew Hardy , and Sarah Satterfield ; the remaining two, viz. Anthony Drury , and Joseph Jmith , were ordered for Execution. Which two, when they saw that all hopes of a Reprieve was past, prepar'd themselves for Death with the utmost application, as one who is a Stranger to their inward disposition of their Hearts and Minds, could possibly in Charity judge of them. The subsequent brief Narrations is for information of those who desire to know any thing further about their last Confessions and Behaviour.

Joseph Smith was Indicted for privately stealing from Thomas Collier , a Coat an Waistcoat, val. 30 s. a Hat, a pair of Silver-Buckles, a Handkerchief, a pair of Gloves, a Tobacco-box, a Knife and Fork, Half a Guinea, and 25 s. on the 2d of August, and found Guilty by the Jury.

Joseph Smith (whose true Name, as he declar'd, was Joseph Shrewsbury ) about 22 Years of Age, as he said, Born at Watford in Hertfordshire , descended of honest Parents, who were poor, mean People, and not capable to give him Education at School, having a numerous Family of ten or eleven Children; yet (as he said) they gave him the good example of a virtuous Life, taking him to Church, and giving opportunity of attaining the knows ledge of Christian Principles and Practices, if his own dispositions had been correspondent to their Instructions and Example. When of Age, they put him out Apprentice to a Tanner , who was a very good and discreet Master in the Place of his Nativity, with whom he stay'd for some Years, but neglected his Business to such a Degree, being, (as he confest) addicted to Dancing, that he cou'd by no means abstain from it, although otherways not at all inclin'd to, or guilty of Robbery or Thieving) that his Master was forc'd to put him away: He acknowledg'd that he liv'd in good Circumstances, if he had not been unthankful to God and Man, for the happy State he was in, by taking himself to bad Company, which prov'd the occasion of his fatal end. As to the particular Fact for which he Suffer'd, he said it was the first Robbery he ever committed, and that one David Anderson , Country Will and Jenny Austin strip't Thomas Collier of his Cloaths, and took his Money from him, while he was at a distance from them, delivering him the Coat, Wastcoat, and other things which were found upon him. He confess'd he had been a great Sinner, and that his Sentence was just, and that he died in Peace with all the World, freely forgiving all Men as he expected forgiveness at the hands of God, begging Pardon of all whom he had injur'd, and declaring that he died in Communion of this Church, of which he own'd himself an unworthy Member.

Anthony Drury , of the Parish of Eling , was Indicted for assaulting Thomas Eldrige on the Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him a Bag, value 2d, a Fan, val. 1 s. a Hamper, val. 6d, 15 Moidores, 210 Guineas, and 80 half Guineas, the Goods and Money of Mr. Burrows, Sept. 25th. He was a 2d, time Indicted for assaulting Sarah the Wife of Robert King on the Highway, and robing her of two Shillings and six pence. He was the 3d, time indicted for assaulting Thomas Eldrige on the Highway, and taking a Callicoe Gown and Petticoat, val. 20s. the Goods of Giles Betts . He was a 4th, time indicted for assaulting Mary the Wife of Joseph Page on the Highway, and forcibly taking from her 2 s. and 6d, For the three first Indictments the Jury brought him in Guilty of Death.

Anthony Drury , as he said about 28 Years of Age, Descended of honest Parents, who were People of Credit and Reputation, and gave him good Education for Business, and instructed him in the knowledge of the Principles of Christianity; but did not (as he alledg'd) put him to any particular Employment, having left him in pretty good Circumstances. He liv'd at several Places, after he left a Country-place in Norfolk where he was Born, particularly in the City of Oxford , at Bister, and at Wandover , in Buckinghamshire , where he resided and kept House, when

he committed the Robbery, for which he was taken, and for which he was Executed. Altho' he was not bred to any Employment, yet he said, that he understood Bricklaying ; and that a certain Gentleman inform'd him in a Secret of curing Smoaky Chimneys, by which Practice he gain'd Considerable; and this was the Reason why he commonly past under the Nick-name of the Chimney Smoaky Doctor. He said that his Father left an Estate of one or two hundred pounds a Year to him, but the Truth of this may be doubted, since none of his Acquaintance who came to Visit him knew of any such Estate; but own'd that he liv'd in very good Credit, and that he was capable to make very considerable Profits of curing Chimneys from Smoaking, which was his Profession, and in doing whereof he was very dexterous. Some few Years ago, he married a Widow Gentlewoman at Oxford , who had an Estate and Money, to the value of fifteen hundred Pounds, as is commonly reported by them who know him; but he said, that all the Fortune he got by her did not exceed 500 l. He said, that till this Misfortune for which he Died, his Credit and Honesty was never doubted, he living in as good a Character, as most Men in his Neighbourhood did. He appear'd to be a young Man of indifferent good Understanding, and of a pliable, civil Temper. In Chappel he seem'd always very Devout in Prayer, and attentive to what Exhortations were given them, and when I saw him in his Room, he was still employ'd in reading upon some Book of Devotion, having had the use of some few little Books very proper for his perusal, in order to prepare him for Death, while he was under Sentence. Both before and after the Report was made, he us'd all possible Means for obtaining a Reprieve, the Thoughts of which, mightily disturb'd and distracted his Mind in preparing for Eternity; and altho' Intercession was made by Men of eminent Note, yet his Crime was look'd upon to be so Heinous, that no Favour could be obtain'd that way; and then two days before his Death, he began to give over all Thoughts of Life, and to be more serious in preparing for Eternity; and to think upon receiving the Sacrament, which was accordingly Administred to him by a Rev. Clergyman, who was so good as to Visit him, and the rest of them sometimes, during their miserable Confinement; and before the Sacrament was given him, he gave a free Declaration of his Faith, and that he was in Peace, and Friendship with all Mankind. For he had frequently made grievous Complaints upon his Wife, calling her unnatural and cruel to him, in neither visiting nor writing to him in the Day of his extreme Calamity. He did indeed write to her himself, as did some others upon his desire, most earnestly desiring her to come to Town, and confer with him about some Affairs before his Death, and to see if she with the assistance of a Gentleman, whom he desir'd to come up with her, could do any thing in order to obtain a Reprieve. This he most earnestly urg'd upon her to do, but she sent no Answer to him; only the Gentleman whom he desir'd to come along with her, sent a Letter to him, making excuse both for Mrs. Drury's, and his own not coming to Town; that she was extremely Lame, and her Servant being gone could not put on her own Cloaths; that she had no Money o bear her Expences in such a Journey, much less to supply him in his Distress; and that it was no ways in her Power to do any thing for him: And as for the Gentleman himself, he said, that ever since he was in Town last attending him, he had been very much indispos'd of a violent Cold, contracted while he was at London, doing what he could for him, and all to no purpose, and going into the Country in a hurry about his own necessary Affairs. Mr. Drury among other Motives to induce his Wife to come to Town, desir'd her not to neglect to do it, that she might redeem some silver Plate which he had Pawn'd here in Town, for 24 l. to relieve himself in his pressing Necessities when in Prison at Newgate , altho' the Plate was worth more than double the Sum which was lent upon it. This Argument had no more force than the rest, she answering by her Friend's Letter, that if any Man would relieve the Plate, she would re-pay him, and gratify him sufficiently for his Trouble. Mr. Drury concluded that his Wife was not willing he should Live, but, as he said, he frankly and from his Heart forgave her. As to the Crime for which he Suffer'd, he said, that he never was a wicked Liver, but had follow'd his Business in an honest way, in working about Chimneys up and down the Country, which he found beneficial; altho' his Wife thinking it Dishonourable and Reproachful, did what she could to persuade and hinder him from following it. He complain'd indeed, that his Marriage being unequal as to Age, was an uncomfortable State of Life to him, his Wife having been of a fretful uneasie Temper, and perpetually Jealous of him without any just Cause.

He said, that he never was, nor never intended to be a Robber or a Highway-man, and that he was never guilty of Theft, excepting the particular Fact for which he died; which (as he alledg'd) if he had not been advis'd, encourag'd, and very frequently press'd upon by another to commit, had never been done by him. The Person who advis'd him (as he said) was Robert King the Waggoner , who was to have the one half of the Booty, whatever it happen'd to be; and who some Weeks before he rob'd the Waggon, at several times, and in different Places, most earnestly, and in an urgent Manner, Counsell'd him to Rob his Waggon, as it was going from Bistter to London ; which he said, You may do it with the greatest Ease immaginable, for no manner of Opposition shall be made, yea, you

shall be rather encourag'd and forewarded in your Attempt. Otherways he said, excepting these importunate Solicitations of Mr. King, he had no Temptation to betake himself to the Highway, being capable to Live upon what he and his Wife had, and what he could make by his own Business like a Gentleman in the Country. A Gentlewoman who waited on Mr. Drury two or three Days, when he was first under Sentence, said, That as she was going out in a Chaise with Mr. Drury from London to Wendover , the Waggoner met them, and desir'd Mr. Drury to come out for he wanted to speak with him; they going off from the Chaise at a good distance; the Gentlewoman could not hear what particulars they spoke upon; only she heard the Waggoner say, That he need not be afraid, and that he was sure to get what he wanted; or to that Purpose.

But the Gentlewoman knowing nothing of their Communication at that Time could make no Judgment of the Words she heard pass between 'em. Strange it is indeed, that Mr. Drury should have rob'd a Waggon where so many People were concern'd, other Waggons also being in Company, and going the same way, without the least Opposition being offer'd him. The Day before his Death, he still reflected upon his Wife's Cruelty, and Brutishness, (as he call'd it) in not sending Money, or coming to him, being to leave the World so suddenly; who (added he) altho' he had been one of the most wicked Men ever was, yet she could not deny him to be her Husband, and as such, he conceiv'd that she was bound in Duty to wait upon and Assist him. I told him, however undutiful his Wife was, yet as a dying Man he should not entertain in his Mind, or show the least Resentment against her, especially in consideration of the heinous Crime he had committed, having thereby Disgrac'd not only himself, but also his Wife and Family: This he acknowledg'd, and appearing a little Easie, he declar'd that as a dying Man, and expected Mercy from God, he freely forgave all Injuries done him. The Evening before he Suffer'd, a Woman came to Mr. Drurey's Room-door in the Prison, and beg'd the favour to speak a word to him, he went to his Chamber-door; the Woman expressing her Sorrow to see him in that Condition; said, That she was desir'd by a certain Person to whom she had been Servant, to be informed by him, What he had to say about the Waggoner? Mr. Drurey reply'd, That the Thoughts of robbing Waggons or any Thing else, never enter'd into his Head, till the Waggoner advis'd, and frequently urg'd him to do it; and that his Blood, the loss of his Life, and all he had in this World lay upon him. I exhorted him to give over all Thoughts of Life, and to think seriously upon Death, for he still entertain'd thoughts of a Reprieve, by the Interest of a Man of Quality, till his Time drawing near; he said, that he submitted to the Will of God, who had justly chastis'd him for his Faults: I frequently advis'd him to try and search his Heart impartially, how it was dispos'd towards God, and Heavenly Things, to which he had been so much a Stranger; a manifest Instance of his Covetousness, appearing by his committing such a notorious Crime, as Robbing on the Highway. I desir'd him to Repent of all his Sins, particularly the notorious and scandalous Villainly for which he Died; not casting the blame upon any Person, but only his own wicked Heart and vicious Inclinations, not pretending Innocence in any respect. He own'd himself to've been a great Sinner, but not a Slave to any particular Vice; that he never was much guilty of Drinking to Excess; that he had been much addicted to Whoring; that he was truly Penitent for all his Offences, believing in Jesus Christ his only Saviour, thro' whose Merits he only expected his Sins to be Expiated, and his Soul to be Saved in the great Day of the Lord; declaring himself in Peace with all the World, and that he Died in Communion with this Church, of which he own'd himself an unworthy Member.

At the Place of Execution.

ANTHONY DRUREY , appear'd with abundance of Courage, as if he had not been much concern'd, and no ways afraid. Being ask'd if he had any thing to add to his former Confessions? He began and spoke a good while, the Substance of his Discourse was, That King the Waggoner was the only Person who put him upon and advis'd him to Rob the Waggon; and that he advis'd him also to Rob the Banbury Waggon, and his own Wife of 4 l. but that he got only 2 or 3 s. from her; he call'd King a very wicked Man, and pray'd God to forgive him, and bring him to a Sense of his Sin. He complain'd of his Wife's Unkindness, whom he also forgave, praying to God for her. At Newgate Prison before he went to Execution, a Man said, that he had married one Mr. Nichols's Daughter in the City of Norwich , who is Sister to the said Man's Wife, and whom he left 7 Years ago, having married another Wife since. Being at the Place of Execution, I ask'd him about his multiplicity of Wives? he wav'd a positive Answer, saying, That he was loaded with many Reproaches by numbers of People, whom he heartily forgave. And calling to a Gentleman who was at the Place of Execution, he gave some private Directions relating to the Settlement of his Estate which he had before made. He gave several Advices to the Spectators to live Virtuous and godly Lives; and he hop'd to be Sav'd thro' the merits of Jesus Christ, and died apparently Penitent.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE , Minister at Newgate .

London ; Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE in Black-Fryers .

