THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and last dying Words of the Three Malefactors, who were Executed at Tyburn , on Monday the 23d of December, 1723.

AT the KING's Commission of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, &c. which began on Wednesday the 4th of this Instant December, before the Right Hon. Sir Peter Delme , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Justice King, Mr. Baron Page, John Raby , Esq ; Deputy-Recorder , and several of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace; three Men and one Woman were found guilty of capital Offences, and had Judgment pronounc'd upon them accordingly.

I was the more careful in attending these unfortunate Men, (viz. J. Stanley, T. Saunders, and J. Harrington; Jane Martin being judg'd with Child) as the two last Men could not read, and as the first was of a Behaviour odd and uncommon. The Sunday preceeding their Deaths, I preach'd to them from Psal. 55, V. 23.

Bloody and deceitful Men shall not live out half their Days.

FIRST, considering from the Words, the Nature of Murder, according to the Natural, the Jewish, and the Christian Law.

SECONDLY, considering Parricide, and the particular Case before us; where was a near Relation, and the strongest Ties for Amity and Friendship. The different Crimes in wounding one whose Life is or is not wanted. Whither the Man whose Life is most needed to support his Family, is not most criminal, in running that Life into Dangers, or in bringing himself to untimely Death; and whither such a Father is not culpable for the Faults his necessitous Offspring may commit thro' Poverty.

THIRDLY, we consider'd, the being deceitful and bloody. If Murder is not most criminal in him, who pretends Love and Tenderness; especially if thereby a credulous unhappy Creature, blinded by the Beauty of a Man, left her Friends and threw herself on his Goodness and Sincerity: We desiring those present to reflect, if any of them had ever led a Person into Vice, and then kill'd her for being vicious.

FOURTHLY, we observ'd, by deceitful Men might be meant Thieves and Robbers, who love the Night, and lye lurking in secret Places. We requir'd them to rely on Christ, who died for Sinners, and was ready and willing to receive them into Glory and Happiness, tho' they were so unfortunate as to suffer an unhappy Death.

1. JOHN STANLEY , was convicted of giving Hanah Maycock a mortal Wound under the Left Pap, of the Depth of 8 Inches, and the breadth of one Inch, on the 20th of October last.

In Compliance with Custom, and with what is requir'd of us, we are here to give some Account of this unfornunate Person, to show all People by what gradual Steps he proceeded from Gaiety to Vice; That observing his Life, others may the better direct their own, and learn to avoid the first Beginnings of Debauchery, and in Time to curb their Passions.

The Mother of this unhappy Gentleman was deliver'd of him at Duce-Hall in Essex , (being the Seat of Mr. Palmer her Brother) in the Year 1698. The Father, being an Officer, was wont, it seems, to exercise the Boy at 5 Years old, by parrying with him, and pricking him, and causing other Officers to do the same; to prevent his fearing any Weapon. The Lad was prais'd, and encourag'd with strong Liquors, and esteem'd a Wonder of his Age, being very active, and very witty. When a Lad, his Father took him (as he said) into Spain and Portugal , where he beheld several Fights; and delighting unaccountably in those Things, would often run from his Tent, and expose himself to Dangers at the Engagement; tho' oftentimes severely used by his Father, for leaving the Ground that he left him upon. He said many were the Fatigues and Hardships that he likewise endured in Portugal ; but he added, that his Pleasure was to walk to and fro upon the Carcasses after an Engagement, and to look at them.

But returning to England ; when his Father was committed Prisoner to Newgate, for stabbing a very near Relation of the Lord Newburg's, and remain'd a considerable Time in the Press Yard; Misfortunes of a different Nature shock'd the Family, too tedious here to mention; but they blew over. Being order'd to Ireland , his Son John went also, and had an Ensign's Commission given him; which he soon after parted with, being in some Extremity thro' want of Money. In Ireland he was much esteem'd by some Noblemen, and a great Number of Officers were particularly fond of him, and continued their Acquaintance to his Death, several of them visiting him very constantly in Newgate , and expressing a great Concern at his Misfortunes: Some of them offer'd to make up a large Sum of Money, if it would be of any real Service to him.

Leaving Ireland , he enter'd into the Vices of London , when a very little Stripling, having heard those Things talk'd of by his Acquaintance in Ireland . His Father, he said, desired him to make Application to the (then) General Stanhope, and he need not fear Preferment, for his Sake: But being well liked by the Women, it made him give himself wholly to the pleasing them, tho' he never thought of marrying, but resolv'd against it. He told a great many People, when first confin'd in Newgate , of his having Intrigues with two different Gentlewomen near Cheapside Conduit . But those Things I shall omit: Being check'd for having no Concern for such Offences, he said, they were Gaieties, and Gaities that all Men practiced, or wished to practice, which was all one; nor would hear any thing against his own Opinion. Such was his extream Airyness and gay Carriage when first a Prisoner. Nor did he then make any scruple of talking publickly of several vicious Tricks by him play'd at Richmond .

But soon after, he told me, he accompanied a Friend of his to Flanders , and from thence (I think) to Holland : He gave an exact Account of the Fortifications at Lisle, Mons, &c. and observ'd, That as the Trade was some Years ago removed from Antwerp to Amsterdam, it might now be as easily transfer'd from Amsterdam to London, or Canterbury; &c. He was also in France , and stay'd a considerable Time at Paris , but upon what Affairs, it imports not much: He boasted indeed, when in Prison, and told certain Gentlemen, of some fine Ladies that had confer'd Favours upon him at Paris , but 'tis very probable that might be only a Boast. But it was there that he improv'd himself, as he said, in Fencing; which, when he return'd into England , he put too much in Practice: For instead of being obliged to Companies, for Treats they sometimes gave him, (when he went in among them) his Temper was so unhappy, that he too frequently quarrel'd with them, and bad them look at his Sword, &c.

But notwithstanding this unhappy Humour, he escaped being kill'd; tho' he had, in the fore-Part of his Body, 6 or 7 large Scars, which he show'd me. He

said his greatest Escape was, when going with one Captain Faulkner from the Captain's Lodgings at one Mr. Colins's near the General Post-Office; he parted from him just before he was kill'd by Mr. Burdett, and two other Gentlemen: Had he been there, he said, he must have died too, for he was so much in Liquor, that he could not have made any Defence against three good Swords men. He said, that he could but reflect on God's Goodness to him, in not cutting him off, when Drunken, or in a Debauchery, but giving him Space to repent of his vicious Gallautries. He affirm'd, that he was very serious for a great while after his Friend's Death, and that it ne'er went out of his Mind; but that it made him give good Advice to several of his wild Acquaintance; and also made him ask several ill Women, (when they thought he was going to commit Fornication with them) Whither their Lewdness would lead them? If they thought to dye as they lived? If they did not believe the Consequence of Vice, when Youth and Beauty left them would be Shame, Poverty and Woe? &c. He affirm'd besides, that as Morice Fitzgerald was his particular Friend, and as he was with him just before he kill'd the Watchman in the Strand , and saw him in Liquor, he would fain have carried him home, and told him, If he assaulted or affronted any Woman, he himself would be forwardest to be an Evidence against him: And for that Reason, he added, it was, that tho' Mr. Fitzgerald so often sent to him from Newgate, he would never see him, even to the very Time of his suffering Death; tho' (as he asserted) he was no way afraid of going to Newgate to see him.

He mention'd other Escapes: Once he said he was set upon by Footpads in the Hampstead Road , as he came from Belsize : Another Time he was assaulted going in Gloncestershire , and drawing his Sword, was near being shot by the Highwaymen, who very much beat and bruised him: He added, that 'twas hard that he, whom no Sword could dispatch, no Storms could drown, no Gun could ever kill, must fall by an ignoble Rope; that he, who had lived with Officers, must dye with Robbers, &c.

After he had been some few Days committed, he declared, before several People, that he would ne'er dye by the Rope; offering, in his airy way, to lay Wagers upon that Matter, &c. But afterwards being convinc'd, that there was no Courage or Bravery in not being able to sustain Misfortunes, but getting from under them, by robbing the Creator of one of his Creatures, he chang'd his Intent; and said, He would dye like a Gentleman and a Soldier, tho' in the manner of a Dog: That his Enemies should see he could appear with the same Face at the Time of his Death, as during the Time of his Life. At the same Time, he acknowledg'd, that he had fully design'd to dispatch himself with a Knife; and afterwards with a Dose of Opium, as an easier and surer Way. But he added, that afterwards, when he resolved to dye as the Law appointed, and to compensate for his Offences with his Blood, he had found a great Quiet and Satisfaction in his Mind; declaring, that he was much more uneasy and unhappy before he was under Misfortunes than after. For he said, That every time Mrs. Maycock's Name was mention'd in Company, a trembling seiz'd his Limbs, and cold Sweats appear'd in Drops upon his Forehead; Which he thought was an Omen of their being the Destruction of each other. He added, that what gave him still greater Reflection, and more Surmises, was, a Horse once throwing him under Tyburn , from which Place he could by no means disengage himself, or get up, till his two Friends advanced and assisted him; and the more, because, soon after, he had the same Fate as he went under Newgate , much injuring his Health by a Fall there. He affirm'd, that for two Months afterwards he constantly address'd himself to Heaven every Morning, desiring his Creator to direct his Steps, and to preserve him from Dangers and Misfortunes.

He said, that 'twas his Misfortune, that he was Educated as a Gentleman, and had Ambition cultivated in him, without having a real Estate to support his Education. His Father became sensible of this, and grew very uneasy at his being unsettled, fearing it might lead him into some Misfortune of fatal Consequence.

For this Reason he put him upon going Abroad; and having Interest with some illustrious Persons, he had a Lieutenant's Commission given him; and was deputed to go over into Africa, (as I remember) as Governor of Cape-Coast-Castle, a Fort belonging to the Royal African Company. He said, that he was at first very much delighted with the Prospect of this Voyage, and with Captain Massey's Company, who was with him: But Mrs. Maycock meeting him at Portsmouth , in order to his allowing somewhat for the Subsistance of her Child by him, according to the Profits

that should arise from his Places: He began to entertain different Sentiments of his Voyage: The leaving certain Acquaintance in London, and certain Houses where he delighted to go, appear'd grievous and melancholly to him: So that at Portsmouth he parted (as he asserted) with half the Money he received from the Company, and kept half himself: From thence going, he return'd to London after some Time, to the great Surprize of all his Friends when they came to hear of it, and to the extream Grief and Affliction of his Father; so that he did repair to his Father where he dwelt in St. Ann's Parish by Soho . But when he understood that his Father was dead, he much bewail'd the Loss of him, and took it so much to Heart, that several of his Friends and Relations affirm, that from that Time (which was about two Years ago) he never was rightly in his Senses. And indeed his attempting to stab himself with a Penknife in the House of Mr. Underhill, only because some Latin was repeated in Company, had the Appearance of an Act of Lunacy; and his putting himself into such violent Storms of Passion, as once frighted a Woman and her Family out of the House, without any Provocation given, had the same Appearance: Both which were sworn upon his Tryal.

He said his Father's Death made a very strong Impression upon him, and he made Resolutions to forsake all his Acquaintance that was not very grave and sober: But as God did not assist him with his Holy Spirit, he was not able to compleat any Reformation. He told me 'twas for this Reason that he went beyond the Seas, as I remember he said to Flanders , and continued there a considerable Time; by seeing new Places, and conversing with unknown Men, he added, that he imagin'd he should wholly forget those Women whom he had known in a vicious Way. But returning into England , he follow'd his usual Course, which (as he said) he should not have done, had he been Master of a competant Fortune for his Subsistance: For then he could have avoided Gaming Houses, which he never took any real Delight in; and could he have desisted from those Houses, he could have dropt the Acquaintance that he did not approve of.

It afterwards appear'd, that all his good Resolutions were soon lost, and that he enter'd again on his former Gaities and Vices. A Proof of which was, his going (intoxicated with Wine) along the Fields, towards Hampstead , and there stabbing Mr. Dawson, and Attorney at Law. I was desired to examine him about the Truth of that Matter before he died: I did so; and he gave me the following Account of it.

I was walking with two Tradesmen, and met Mr. Dawson and five more Gentlemen; a Quarrel arising, I interposed, having a good Sword. A Pistol was then fired at me, (as I think by the Apothecary who was with Mr. Dawson) and the Bullet grazed by my Skin thro' my Coat and Wastcoat, which Hole in the Coat has been seen by several People, and may now, I believe, be seen at my Mother's at the Swan Tavern in Long-Acre , where she and I lodged: As I thought it was the Apothecary who pushed so hard upon me, my Design was to have stab'd him; but he being a little Man, Mr. Dawson interposed between us, and received the Sword into his own Body, which went thro' the lower Part of his Belly into his Back Bone, and immediately laid him in Blood. He was carried to the Half-Way-House, and the Surgeon took Care of him for about six Weeks. I prov'd to be known, and was appointed to be arrested; for a long Time they were in Pursuit of me, but my Sword saved me. This was what he said. But when he was told, that the wounded Man, being a young Man, was obliged to leave off his Business upon the above Account; He appear'd to be for that: But he refused to discover the two Persons that were in Company with him; saying, that as he committed the Fact, and had taken it upon himself, 'twould be hard and dishonourable to bring those Men into Disasters, or lay them under a Compulsion of paying for the Cure.

He freely acknowledg'd his Faults, in being of so passionate and warm a Temper, and beg'd Pardon of all Men whom he had quarrel'd with; mentioning, in particular, a Gentleman whom he call'd Captain Chickley, whom, he said, he disagreed with at a Cyder Cellar in Covent-Garden , and fought with, in a dark Room in that Place: He did believe, that it was thro' God's Mercy, that they were seperated by a Constable that was sent for, or otherwise he might have been sent suddenly out of the World, without any Preparation, in the midst of Rage and Choler, and in the Commission of an ill Action: For he added, that he received a dangerous Wound in his Breast, near his Shoulder, the Sword going quite thro' his Body, and out at his Back; his Opposer receiving only two slight Cuts.

'Twas the more strange that he should be so covetous of running into Dangers, as he had three Children by Mrs. Maycock; one whereof is about 4 Years old, and lived and lay with him till his Death; he appearing to be very tender and indulging of the Boy. He was for several Years so towards it's Mother Mrs. Maycock. And Cause he had, as he was welcome to her House when she lived at the Corner of the Old-Bailey upon Ludgate-Hill, and afterwards when she removed into Southwark; she refusing some good Offers of Marriage, to converse with him, and to accompany him to Kentish Town , and other Places where they had Lodgings, before they went to the Swan in Long-Acre . This Amity, he said, was first impair'd by their Substance being partly exhausted: And afterwards he had some Resentment, upon hearing she had new Men whom she approv'd of, and had seen the visible Effects of their Love, at the House in the Old-Bailey: But (continued he) I must own, that I was chiefly the Occasion of it, as I at first seduced her, and then was not able to maintain her. But he would not acknowledge what one Evidence at his Tryal deposed, That he express'd an Intent to kill her half a Year ago. After this, he was going to send a Letter to Mr. Bemmont in Newgate-street, on what Account I know not, when he was told that Mr. Bemmont was just dead; whereupon he fell into a great Agony, as if he had thereby been hinder'd of something of Importance.

He was very much shock'd when he heard, that Mrs. Maycock's Life and Death had also broken her Brother Bryan's Heart, who died on Tower-Hill: So that, tho' at first his Behaviour was light, and his Expressions, that he did not fear dying by a Rope; yet afterwards he grew very calm and serious; saying, he should die with Delight, to satisfy Blood with Blood. He read the Scripture and Forms of Prayer to Saunders and Harrington, in the Condemn'd Hold; regularly he attended the Chapel, (absenting himself but twice) and read the Psalms, and made the other Responses, with much Care: Yet he twice show'd the Effects of his Temper upon two Persons, whom he absurdly fancy'd appear'd there, to triumph over him in his Misfortunes. He said, he hoped Christ would receive his Soul, because he had been so good a Father to his dear Child: Upon which remembrance, he would even shed Tears, and call the Deceased, Cruel! Barbarous! &c. He desired he might receive the Sacrament the Day he died, and the Sunday preceeding: At which Times he appear'd altogether serious, grave and composed; saying, he was easy in his Mind, and ready to enter another World.

2. THOMAS SAUNDERS , of St. Giles's Cripplegate , was Convicted of stealing 26 Guineas, 14 Broad Peices, a silver Porringer, and other Things, from the House of R. Wheeler, where he Lodg'd, on the 19th of July last.

He was aged forty odd, and had led a Life of various Fortunes and Adventures; being sent when very young into the Sea Service. In the Reign of Queen Anne, he was taken by the French, and sent Prisoner into France , but liv'd as well, he said, a Prisoner as a Sailor . Being releas'd; he was some Years afterwards taken Prisoner to Algiers , and us'd very cruelly by the Moors; Being all made to labour beyond their Strength: But they also, when they could, us'd the Algerines as hardly, thinking it no Crime to torture them, or to disfigure their Heads, by clipping off their Noses, Ears, &c. Soon after he got away from them, he was again taken to Sallee. But the Captain he belong'd to, got him a Release from them very soon. He was for a great while, he said, Boatswain to Captain Peacock. But his Brother, at last, put him upon assuming a more profitable Office. A Person having the Command of a Sloop, who was not so well acquainted with the Seas as T. Saunders, Mr Saunders was as Captain. But after some time, two Dutch Ships took the Sloop, and carrying it into Rotterdam , all the Men were try'd for Piracy. The Hollanders not having sufficient Proof against them, they were acquitted: But afterwards in England try'd at the Admiralty (12 Years ago.) But Captain Peacock stepping in, and swearing T. Saunders was his Boatswain, Saunders escap'd. He said, that the Ship was a Pirate-Sloop of 20 Guns, but that he was taken by the Pirates, and forc'd into their Service, being a stout Man, and from a Boy acquainted with the Seas. He was also try'd once, as he said, in France , but there likewise was acquitted.

Tho' he could read very little, he was serious and attentive to his Duty, and desirous to be instructed; desiring, before he dyed, that no Reflections might be made upon his Innocent Family; for if his Child was to suffer for his shame, he believed 'twould be impossible, he said, that is Body could rest under the Ground.

3. JOHN HARRINGTON , of White-Chapel , Drover , was condemn'd for taking from J. Low a Perriwig, and 10 s. in Money, near Stepney Road , on the 10th of March last. He confess'd the Robbery before he suffer'd Death; and said, he had knock'd down several People, and shaken the Money out of their Pockets: But I found that his having been accustomed to fight at Hockbey in the Hole , for Money, made him look upon an Assault as a Jest, and then the stealing Cloths and Pocket-Money, seem'd a very trivial Offence. The Nature of his Offence was explain'd to him, and the way how he was to repent of it, so as to inherit the Mercy of God, and the Merits of Christ.

The Account of them at the Place of Execution.

ABOUT Nine of the Clock, they were carried up to the Chapel; J. Stanley appear'd compos'd and serene; but being reading a Sermon, on a sudden flew into a Passion, and said, He was vexed on no Account but because he had not fired the whole House where Mrs. Maycock died: He was requested to lay aside those Starts of sudden Passion, if possible, and to be in Charity towards all the World: He then grew very calm, and call'd earnestly upon God and Christ. He received the Sacrament with the utmost Devotion; and afterwards said, He was perfectly easy at the Thoughts of leaving this World, which to him had been a Life of Anxiety and constant Hurry and Uneasiness.

He was carried in a Mourning Coach to Tyburn ; T. Saunders and J. Harrington going together in a Cart.

T. Saunders desired I would take Notice, that his Wife was not privy to his Robbery, which he took wholly upon himself, and was very penitent for his Offences.

Mr. Stanley arriving at the Place of Execution, turn'd pale when he was first put into the Cart, and said to me he was sick. He desired that the Ropes which were round them, and ty'd over the Tree, might be again unty'd, that they might kneel down while God was worshiped; which was accordingly done. During the Prayers, he was extreamly earnest and fervent; but a Sickness at the Stomach at Times coming upon him, he lean'd his Head; and desired me to support him with my Hand.

Being ask'd if he intended to say any thing to the People, he answer'd, No, his whole Mind he had told me, two or three Days before, which he supposed People would see; and he had nothing more to add. He then said, That as his Friends had provided an Hearse that stood near, to bear away his Body, he hoped no one would be so cruel as to deny his Relations the Gift of his dead Limbs, that they might receive Christian Burial; unless he was promised that, he could not dye in Peace.

When the Cap was put over by his Countenance, he was seen to shed Tears: Receiving the Pity of all Present, he easily resign'd his Breath.

This is all the Account that can be given by me,

T. PURNEY, Ordinary, and Chaplain.

ADVERTISEMENT.

TO prevent the Mischiefs and Abuses that are consequent to the Ignorance and Male-Practice of daring Quacks, and other unskilful Practitioners; A regular bred Surgeon and Man-Midwife, who has practised many Years in various Countries, and under several Governments, by Land and Sea, informs the Publick, That he has acquired a Method of curing the Venereal Disease, in all its Degrees, and with all its concomitant Attendants, so perfectly, certainly, and easily, as shall give no Interruption to Business, or Suspicion to Friends: Be not dismay'd, although given over by others as Incurable, because out of the reach of their shallow Capacities: Let your Condition be ever so bad, you may depend upon being restored to a sound and vigorous Habit of Body, without the least Remains of any lurking Relicts, and that without any Alteration of Diet, or Confinement, even though you have been Salivated to no purpose, and with Medicines both pleasant and grateful to the Taste. He cures Cancers, and all scropholous Tumours or Ulcers, Leprosies, or Fistulas, without manual Operation; the King's Evil, in either Sex, any unnatural Obstructions, or too great a Redundancy of Humours, which, though by some (for want of Understanding) is attributed to foul Conversation, yet often proceeds from an Alteration of Constitution in Women of advanced Age; the Green Sickness, with the Causes of it, remov'd; all which is done by a falubrious Method, which corrects the sharp vicious Humour in the Blood, without violent Purging or Vomiting, the common Drudgery of Practice. It would be endless to enumerate the many Cures perform'd upon Persons reduced to Skelitons, by the Ignorance of some, and Inadvertency of others. In short, the unhappy Patient suffers for all. He gives his Advice in all Distempers incident to human Bodies with Candour, Judgment, and Honesty, every Morning till Eleven a-Clock, and from Two till Nine at Night, at the Golden-Hart in Crane-Court, near Fetter-Lane, in Fleet street. A square Lamp at the Door.

LONDON : Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bride-well-Bridge , in Black-Fryers .

