THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 26th of this Instant JULY, 1731.

BEING THE FIFTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq ;

Number V. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXI.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Rt. Hon. the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds; the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn, Mr. Serjeant Urlin, DeputyRecorder of the City of London; and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice Hall in the OldBailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, being the 14th, 15th, 16th, and 17th of July, 1731, in the Fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Eight Men, viz. Thomas Grainger , John Davis , John Drinkwater , Bernard Fink , William Yates , alias Warrington , John Armstrong , Nathaniel Lamprey , and Thomas Clarkson were by the Jury convicted of capital Offences, and sentenced to Die.

All of them being young Men, abandon'd to commit Wickedness, averse to every Thing that was Good, and whatever good Precepts they might have received in their Childhood, yet by a long continu'd Habit of vicious Courses, in following their diabolical and hellish Inclinations, their juvenile Instructions being almost wholly eras'd and obliterated: I explained to them, in a plain Way, the Articles of our Holy Faith, necessary to Salvation, and show'd them, that

all those Points, thus needful to be known, were intended for the Reformation of our Lives, to restore us unto the Dignity of the divine Nature, that we may become like unto God in Holiness, Without which no Man can see the Lord. For as Christ came into the World, to rectify the Mistakes and corrupt Notions about Religion, introduc'd by the Jewish Doctors and Rabies; so his great Aim in all these Instructions was, to discover unto them, wherein they declin'd from the Paths of Virtue; and to bring them to the Practice of sincere Piety and Goodness, which is the only Way to Happiness; and therefore, St. Peter, when preaching to convince Men of the Excellency of our Christian Institution, gives this as one of the noblest Epithets of the Author thereof, Who went about doing Good. Acts. x. 38. This is one of Christ's most notable Characters, that he was constantly employ'd in doing Good to the Souls and Bodies of Men; and in immitation of him, who is the Captain of our Salvation, the Author and Finisher of our Faith, and of those who through Faith and Patience have inherited the Promises; we ought to be constantly employ'd in working Righteousness, in exercising ourselves more and more unto Godliness, which hath a Promise of this Life and that which is to Come; for this is the very End of our Creation, That we may glorify God! And by what Means do we glorify God? By working Righteousness and doing Good, after the Example of our Blessed Saviour; by exercising Acts of Justice, Mercy and Compassion; by injuring no Man, but doing Good to every one, to the utmost of our Power; yea, by prosecuting Malice against no Person, but freely and in the bowels of Christian love, Sympathy and Compassion, forgiving all those who have offended us, as we expect (for Christ's sake) forgiveness, from a good and merciful God, for the Manifold; yea, the innumerable offences we have committed against him.

I expos'd to them the irregularity of their Lives, how disagreeable they had been to the rules of right Reason, and that natural light infus'd into the breast of reasonable Creatures; and how much more dissonant must such a wicked Life be, to those Divine rules of Morality, deliver'd to us by Christ himself, by far superior to the most elevated precepts of Jews and Gentiles, to the most refin'd Dictates of the greatest Orator or Philosophers? In consideration of these

Things; I desir'd them to humble themselves in Dust and Ashes, to acknowledge themselves the greatest of Sinners, to take shame and confusion of Face to themselves, in confessing their many Sins to God and Man, since as the wise Man saith; He, who confesseth and forsaketh his Sin, shall find Mercy; but he, who hideth his Sin shall not Prosper.

Davis having been guilty of Robbery and Murther, I expos'd to him the great Evil of that horrid Sin; as being contrary to the express Law of God, Thou shall do no Murder, And if every Transgression of Gods Law deserves God's Wrath and Curse, as the Apostle saith, Cursed is every one who continueth not in all Things, that are written in the Book of the Law to do them; then what can the Murderer, who is guilty of such a henious Sin, as destroying the Image of God, and doing what in him lies, to Ruin both Soul and Body of a Man at once, and that to all eternity, if the infinite Mercy of God in Christ prevent it not, I say, what can such an atrocious Sinner as this expect? But as the Psalmist says, The Wicked shall be turned into Hell, and all the Nations that forget God. Psalm. ix. 17. And, upon the Wicked he shall rain Snares, Fire and Brimstone, and an horrible Tempest: This shall be the Portion of their Cup. Psalm. xi, 6. &c.

I exhorted them all, however many or great their Crimes might have been to throw themselves upon the infinite Goodness of God in Christ; not to despair of the divine Mercy, but to believe in him who died for our Sins, to repent of all their Offences, and wholly to resign themselves unto God: And in token of their Repentance, I advis'd them to partake in the Sacrament of the Lords Supper, as a Pledge and Confirmation of all the Benefits of the new Covenant, and as an assured Symbole of the everlasting Union and Communion we shall have with Jesus Christ in his heavenly Kingdom and Glory.

When these and many like Exhortations were given, they all attended in Chapel, and made regular Responces. Davis appear'd to be much affected, and sometimes he wept, as did some of the Rest. Yates Smil'd two or three times in Time of Prayer, upon some triffling Occasions. Armstrong and Grainger were indispos'd for a Day or two, but they came to Chapel, though with much Difficulty. They were all (as to appearance) Devout and very Attentive, and behav'd better then many of these unhappy Creature use to do: Fink cried very much like a Child.

Upon Thursday the 22d of July, the Report of the abovementioned 8 Malefactors, under Sentence of Death in Newgate, was made to his Majesty in Council, when all of them, viz. Thomas Granger , John Davis , John Drinkwater , Bernard Fink , William Yates , alis Warrington , John Armstrong , Nathaniel Lamprey and Thomas Clarkson were ordered for Execution. And when upon Friday, the 23d Instant,

they had an Account of it, they appear'd to be more concern'd than formerly.

John Davis , of St. Mary Islington , was indicted for assaulting William Walker , Esq ; in a Field and open Place near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Coat, Wastecoat, a pair of Breeches, Hat, Wig, Sword, and Ninepence half-penny in Money, the 10th of July, in the Year 1730.

He was likewise indicted a 2d Time of St. John Pancras , for Assaulting Thomas Tickford , and giving him one mortal Wound in the Head, of the Length of half an Inch, and the Depth of three Inches, the 17th of July, in the Year 1730.

He was also indicted, a third Time, for Assaulting Henry Tickford on the Highway, at the same Time, and taking from him, a Handkerchief, Hat, Hatband and Gloves, and 1 s. 7 d. in Money.

This Prisoner was likewise indicted a 4th Time for Stealing a Cask of Small Beer, value 4 s. 6 d. the Property of John Brown , the 1st of June last; for which being apprehended he gave an information of these Robberies before Justice Dennet, designing to be admitted as an Evidence; but being capitally Convicted upon three Indictments, the Court thought it unnecessary to try him on this.

1. John Davis , about 29 Years of Age, of honest but mean Parents, born at Portsmouth , from whence they removed to London, and his Father died and left him Young. His Mother was a careful industrious Woman, and did what she could for the Keeping of six young Children: She put John to School, but he was a cross, perverse Boy, disobedient to his Mother, would not keep the School, and knew but little of Religion (and other Things) the Knowledge of which he had a favourable Opportunity of attaining to. His Mother being much straiten'd in her Circumstances, she was not in a Capacity to bind him Apprentice to a Trade, so when he was able to go about, he went on Errands, and did any little Thing he could, towards getting his Bread: 'Till a Person seeing him a strong big Boy, was willing to take him, and would have bred him a Mason , but he was not willing to apply, so as to make himself Master of the Business, yet he being of a robust Constitution, his Master (the Mason) employed him in sawing of Stones, by which Employment he had Gains, and wanted nothing, and then he married a Wife, whom he left with three poor young Children: When he was wearied with Stone-sawing, he served Brewers , and learned to Brew Small beer: In this Way of Business he succeeded better, and made 50 l. a Year, and maintain'd his Family very well, but he lov'd not close Application to any Business, but getting into idle Company, he one Night (in a drunken Fit) listed himself, in the second Regiment of Guards , but repenting of this Action, when he came to himself, he absented

from the Regiment, would not wear the Livery, and never learn'd the Exercise, and being liable to be taken up for a Deserter, he was obliged to hide, and when he went abroad to go in a constant Disguise. He followed the Brewing of Small-beer, till his Neighbour R-d J-s advised him to give over that slavish nasty Trade, (as he call'd it) and to go and buy Pistols, for raising of Contribution on the Highway: Accordingly they went into Holbourn, and purchas'd 2 Pistols and a half Blunderbuss, which was all the Arms he ever used on the High way, although Jo-s carried along with him (also) a sharp Knife, and sometimes a Dagger. Davis made a little Scruple to engage in such dangerous Exploits, but J-s told him, that there was no such great Danger, that it was needless for them to Work so hard for their Bread, when they might get Money enough for being at the Pains to walk out a little, that their Villainies (known to none but themselves) might easily be concealed, and that by what unlawful Purchase they might make, they could go finer and live easier than their Master or chief Clerk. Davis was easily perswaded to what he was not Averse to; so they kept together, went out upon their Expeditions, and for three or four Years, have lived upon their Purchase on the Highway, and they have been constantly busied in doing Mischief, and, like the D-l, going about seeking whom they may Devour. The Robbery near Pancras , for which he was Convicted, he committed, but he said, it was his Partner who murder'd the honest Man, named Thomas Tickford , for he added, that J-s was a cruel bloody minded Fellow, and set no Value upon a Man's Life, but he was always angry with him for his barbarous Disposition, and although the Law suppos'd him guilty of Murder, because present when it happen'd, yet he thought himself innocent, because he never had any such intention: I told him, though his not actually committing the Crime might extenuate the Guilt, yet he could not be thought Innocent, as having gone out upon a Design, of violently Attacking People, in order to Rob them, which in Case of opposition, is commonly attended with Murder, and that (as he own'd) he abetted and succour'd the Murderer, which made him Guilty; therefore I exhorted him not to deceive himself with a Thought of Innocence, but particularly to repent of the Sin of Murder, and to cry unto God for Mercy, that he might be wash'd in the Blood of Jesus, which speaks better Things than that of Abel, from the guilt of innocent Blood. At the Bar, when he Receiv'd Sentence, he said Yates and his Companions knew he did not do the Murder. Yates said, he was upon the same Road, and upon the same Design, but that they knew nothing of one anothers Company, and they were at a great Distance, and he no wise knew who did the Murder. He own'd also that he assisted at the Robbery of Mr.

Walker, in the Field between Oldstreet Church and Islington , where they treated the Gentleman most Inhumanly, having given him several Wounds in the Breast, after he had made a brave Defence, when a Man who was in his Company run away, Mr. Walker having rescu'd him from them; but then they becoming Master both of himself and his Sword, they barbarously stript and left him Naked and deadly Wounded, though it pleas'd God to recover him. This was at 10 at Night, the 10th of July 1730. The two Robberies commitetd upon the 28th, of January, 1730. When a Peruke, Value 20 s. a Guinea and 2 or 3 Shillings were taken from one; a Watch, 2 Guineas, and 17 s. were taken from another Gentleman; for which Robberies Francis Haccabout was Executed, upon Friday the 17th of April, 1730. Both these Robberies Davis said he committed, and that Hackabout knew nothing of them.

Davis begg'd Forgiveness of God, for bringing another to an untimely End by his Villainies. He also with his Companion J-s robb'd a Waggon near Mary-bone , about a Year ago, of several Parcels of valuable Goods, such as Silks, &c. a Highwayman on Horseback had first stopp'd the Waggon, and he pleaded hard for a Share of the Plunder, saying, He was very Poor, and I hope Brethren you'll pity me. No, reply'd they, Brother of the Trade, there is Nothing due to you, for such Goods as these, belong not to your Way of Business: After a tedious Importunity, they threw two Fowls to him, and bid him, Go and cram his hungry Guts with these. I ask'd him, What Number of Robberies he had committed? He said, He kept no Kalender, but he very ingenously told me some of the most remarkable, and that the Rest of them were very numerous, far above his Memory, he having had no Way of Living for some Years past, but by Thieving or Robbing in the Streets and Highway. His Conscience often checq'd him, and when his Friends told him, what would be the End of his loose idle Life, he made Vows of an Amendment, but never had the Virtue or Grace to perform them. He threatned sometimes to make away with himself out of Dispair, but all Convictions and Sense of Duty left him, when he met with his Companions again. He wept and groan'd much and seem'd very penitent. He behav'd well and acknowledg'd his Sentence most just. He declar'd his Faith in Christ, that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

William Yates , alias Warrington , John Armstrong , and Nathaniel Lampree , were Indicted, for that they with Daniel Wiltshire , not yet taken, did assault Edward Allen on the Highway, putting him in Fear of his Life, and taking from him Goods, val. 3 s. and 1 s. and 9 d. in Money.

They were also Indicted a 2d Time, for assaulting John Sutton on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking

from him a Gold-watch and three Guineas the 26th of May last.

2. William Yates , alias Warrington , near 19 Years of Age, was educated at School to read, write, and cast Accompts, to fit him for Business, and was instructed in religious Principles; and when of Age, his Father bred him to his own Business of a Butcher . The Father died two or three Years ago, and left his Family in mean Circumstances. William wanting his Father to exercise Authority over him, grew too stubborn to be governed by his poor Mother, whom he left and renounced all Subjection to her, attaching himself to a Gang of the most notorious Whores, Thieves, Pickpockets, Street and Highway-robbers, in and about the Town, and was an assiduous Practitioner in all the different Kinds of Thieving, Stealing and Robbing. He was one of the five young Street-robbers, taken up at Windsor last Year, and was admitted an Evidence against O Bryan, Johnson, and Morris, who were executed the 16th of November last. A Woman who past for O Bryan's Wife, call'd for him at the Prison-door, when he was first put into the Cells; he call'd out, If she wanted any Thing with him? Then she cried up to the Cells, I am glad to see you there, you vile bloody Dog, and that you're hurrying apace to Hell, going to that Place you well deserve; after she had said this and more to the same Purpose, and wish'd hearty Curses and Imprecations to him, she went off; Yates heard all with Patience, and return'd not one Word of Answer. He intended to have gone on board a Man of War at Rochester , but was prevented by being taken up for the Robberies upon which he was Indicted. He own'd that for some Years past, he liv'd by nothing but Theft and Robbery, and that he spent all his Time in bad Houses with Whores and Thieves, not daring to appear in publick for Fear of a Discovery. He was notoriously Disobedient to his Parents, and unwilling to receive any good Instructions. He lov'd the Sea, and went once a Voyage to Stockholm, but hating Confinement he left it. He intended to have gone Abroad for some Time, till he was a little forgot, and then to Return to his old Game. He committed innumerable Thefts and Robberies, and own'd the Truth of the two Indictments, as sworn against him, although at First he persisted in a Denial. He was a most daring, bold, obdured, obstinate Wretch. He made Responses in Chappel, but smil'd too often, and was not serious and devout, as he ought to have been. He declared that he believed in Christ, repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all the World.

3. John Armstrong , near 19 Years of Age, educated at School and instructed in Principles of Religion. When of Age, he was put to a Silversmith , but his Master died, and then he went to a Clog-maker , and in a short Time, growing weary of all Employments, he left off all Business, and betook himself to an idle, va

grant, wicked, profligate Life. At first he denied the Robberies of which he was Convicted, in some faint Hopes of a Reprieve, which all of them are too apt to conceive, though their Crimes are never so black. But when the Dead-Warrant came out, and all expectation of Safety vanish'd, he confess'd that he was a principal Actor in the two Robberies they were Convicted of, and that the same Night they committed two more, and that he had been guilty of a great many other Street-Robberies, having from his Childhood, been of a most covetous, thievish Disposition, and one of the most notorious Pick-Pockets about Town. He got acquainted in these Houses, where the Thieves and Robbers hold their general Rendezvouzes, and there he learn'd all the secret Ways of that Set of People, which seldom fail to bring them to the Gallows. He was Sick two or three Days, but came to the Chappel in the Afternoon, and behaved gravely and with apparent Devotion; only he, Drinkwater, and Yates spoke to one another, and smil'd sometimes, for which I reproved them, and told them it was very unseasonable, and such a Carriage show'd little Regard to the great Work they had to do, and upon which depended their eternal Happiness or Misery. They said, They had no evil Intention, they were sorry if they had given any Offence, and begg'd God's Pardon. He own'd, that God had in his Providence afflicted him most justly, for his notorious Impieties, and said that although Fink denied it, yet he certainly committed the Robbery of which he was convicted. He own'd that he was addicted to all those Vices, which are the Bane of such wicked and unhappy Creatures. He hoped to be saved by the Mercies of God thro' Christ, repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all the World.

John Armstrong , John Drinkwater , and Bernard Fink , of St. Giles's in the Fields , were Indicted for Assaulting, Amy , the Wife of John Rich , on the Highway.

4. Bernard Fink , 15 Years of Age the 28th Day of January last, of honest respected Parents, who took care of his Education at School and in religious Principles. His Father was from Lubeck, and having Business Abroad, left England some Years ago, and his Wife and Family in great Poverty. But Bernard having been a smart well looking Boy; a Gentleman of great Honour took him home to his House, and intended to have given him good Education, having put him to a top-Boarding-School at the other End of the Town, to be instructed in Lattin, Greek, Writing, Accompts, &c. And that Gentleman had the Goodness to order him fine Cloaths, above his Degree, and as he said, the Servants respected him, and sometimes he went out in a Chair with a Footman attending him; and if he had been obedient and pleas'd his good Master, he intended to breed him a Gentleman, and to get him provided for, having no Children

of his own. But all this extraordinary Kindness and Civility could not instill any Principle of Honour into Fink, his Genius naturally leading him to Vice and Corruption: His first wrong step was to Gaminghouses, by the Advice and in Company of a Footman, which when his Patron heard of he disown'd him; and Fink being left to himself, he went Abroad to his Father's Friends in Germany , where he learn'd to speak High-Dutch, but although some of his Relations (as he said) were eminent Men, and willing and capable to do for him, yet he would not be manag'd by them, but chose to Return to the Company of his Black-Guards, whom he prefer'd to all others. This manner of Life he began to follow about four Years ago, after he left the School, and when he had gone several times between London and Lubeck ; being grown up a Little, he join'd himself to a Company of most notorious, impudent, young Street-Robbers, though a little Older than he. Having done a Deal of Mischief about the Town, they hir'd Horses and went to Windsor , each of them having his Mistress to bear him Company, and there they were taken up, and brought to London, where Fink, because of his Youth, was allowed to be an Evidence, upon which three others were Executed in November last, as was said in the Account of Yates, who was the other Evidence. At first he denied the Fact of which he was Convicted, but Armstrong said that is was true, and then he finding that there was no Expectation of Life own'd it. He had a natural inclination to Villany and was irreclaimable. It was said that he said in the Cells, if he were let out, he would go straight to his old Trade He was said to be much addicted to Women. He Drank and Swore very much, and was most active and rude in Robbing People. He seem'd to have been a Boy capable of Business, but he had such a natural Byass to Vice, that he employ'd all his Wit the wrong Way. They said, that he was lately married in the Fleet , and that they drank so liberally at the Wedding, that he and his Companions pawn'd all their Pistols, and found it difficult to get Money to relieve them. Bernard alledg'd these Stories about Women were only said of him for jest. When I examin'd and spoke to him, he wept like a Child, as he often did in Chappel. This Boy was a sad Instance of the Depravity of humane Nature, destitute of the Grace of God and left to itself; he declar'd, that he believ'd in Christ his Saviour, repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Offences, as he hop'd for Pardon from God.

The following is an Account of the Robberies which was committed by Barnard Fink and his Companions, viz.

THE first Robbery which I ever committed was in Company with

William Warrington , Hugh Morris , and James Bryan , in King street, GoldenSquare ; were we stop'd a Coach and robb'd an Appothecary's Wife, of the value of 10 s. and 6 d.

The next was in the same Street; we met a Woman, and attack'd her, who said she had been at a Trial at Westminster; we took from her a Crown, with a green Purse; we ask'd her the reason why she had not more Money about her, upon which she reply'd, she had paid all her Money at Westminster among the Lawyers.

In the same Street we met with a Col. of the Guards, we took from him a Guinea and some Silver, a Sword, a gold headed Cane, the Head was valu'd at 8 l. and we sold it for 30 s. and likewise we took from him a GermanFlute, which he had in a green Bagg; I play'd upon it all the way down the Street; the same Night I was taken up, and committed to Tothill Fields Bridewell , on Suspicion of being concern'd in Street-robberies; but no Person appearing against me, I was Discharg'd.

After I was Discharg'd, I had not Grace enough to leave off my wicked Courses. I with Hugh Morris , going a long Piccadily one Evening, we attack'd a Gentleman, and as soon as we attack'd him, he cry'd out; we reply'd to him, Sir, do not be Frighted, Money we want, and Money we must have; so we took from him fifteen Shillings; the Watchmen coming their Rounds, we bid the Gentleman go about his Business, and not to speak one Word, and if he did, he was a dead upon which he said, upon my will not; as he was crossing the he said Gentlemen, Will you have any thing else? I having a very indifferent Hat, I call'd him back, and made an Exchange with him, and told him, an Exchange is no Robbery, Gentlemen says he, will you have my Wigg also; Hugh Morris Swore he wou'd shoot the Gentleman if he did not go back and shew him where his Watch was; the Gentleman reply'd, he had not any Watch about him, or any where else; so took his Leave of us, and wish'd us better success. The same Night going along we met a Man, who was very much in Liquor, whom we attack'd, when we bid him Stand, you Rogues, I value you not; we made no more to do, but took our Pistol and put it to his Nose, and bid him smell to it, which somewhat surpriz'd him; I thought Gentlemen, you were but in Jest; Sir, says I, you shall see that we are in Earnest, for we took from him his Watch, and some Silver, but what quantity I cannot well Remember.

After that we went to Hedge-Lane , where some of our Companies quarreling about sharing of the Monies, which we had taken that Night; so I and Johnson left them; and going along we met a Butcher, and bid him Stand, upon which he laid hold of my Companion by the Collar, and at the same Time laid hold of his Pistol, and reply'd you Rogue, I do not value you, and push'd him against the Wall. I stepping up to him, and swore an

Oath (which God forgive me) if he did not let my Companion go, I would shoot him thro' the Head; the Butcher reply'd, I will not let him go you Rogue; upon which I shot him thro' the Arm; immediately he cry'd out I am a dead Man, and fell down; the noise alarm'd some Coachmen, who was thereabouts, and likewise a Watchman, but we drove them before us, by showing our Pistols, and so got off.

The same Evening we met a Gentleman by King-street near Golden-square; as he was coming along he drew his Sword, and cross'd the other side of the Way, and bid us stand off, which Johnson reply'd we don't value your Sword and showing him our Pistols, he was very much surpriz'd; he immediately flung down his Sword, and said Gentlemen, use me Civilly, and take what I have, which we took from him a silver Tobacco-Box, a silver hilted Sword, and a lace Hatt and some Silver, with a memorandum Book, after we had taken all that we could find, we made off. Another Evening we met a Gentleman by Hannover-square , just by the Road, where he took me in his Arms and flung me over the Rails into the Road, I immediately recover'd my Leggs and went up to him and gave him a Punch in the Guts with my Pistol, upon which he said, I am easy; then we robb'd, and took from him a silver hilted Sword, a Cane, some Guineas with some Silver, we thought the Head of the Cane had been Gold, so we carried it to a Goldsmith, but when he saw it he laugh'd at us, and told us it was Brass. After we had committed this Robbery we was pursu'd, but got clear off, after this manner, for crossing the Way were some Watchmen was standing, and they ask'd us what was the matter, we told them some Gentlemen call'd Chair, and so got off.

About eight or nine Months ago, Hugh Morris , O'Bryan, Johnson and Warrington (who is now to Die with me) said Bernard let us go to Windsor , you know there is to be an Installment, where we shall have an Opportunity to get good Booty; accordingly we all did; but when we was down, we was inform'd the Constables was out after us; so that we had not an Opportunity to do any Thing worth while; we could not be idle, for a small Time that we was there, we us'd to go to Chandler's Shops and Grocers, under pretence of begging some Small-Beer, so when they went backwards to draw it, the mean Time we took an opportunity to rob the Drawers of what Money there was in them.

About Twelve-Months agoe, I, Johnson, Hugh Morris and Bryan, went out towards Pancrass in order to see what Booty we could fix on, going along we saw three Fellows going a Field or two before us; I said to my Companions, I believe they are upon the same lay as we are; We had not gone far in Figg-Lane , but we heard a Pistol go off, and a little while after, we heard the Groaning of a Man, upon which, I said those Rogues have shot the Man; (whose Name as I have been

inform'd since, is Tickford) we all agreed to follow them, and to have shot every one of them, for being so barbarous to commit Murder; (for that I always did abhor) we follow'd them three Fields, but could get no sight of them, so I desir'd them to go back and see if they could find out the Person that was shot, which we did, and saw his Brains lying on the Ground and just expiring. In returning for London , we met a Gentleman in a Chaise, upon which Hugh Morris attack'd, and the Gentleman said he was robb'd by three Persons just before, and had nothing; but Hugh Morris swore he wou'd shoot him for having nothing, I stepp'd up to him, and said if you hurt the Gentleman, I will shoot you thro' the Head; the Gentleman reply'd, God Bless you, you are all young Men, I wish you better Success.

About ten Months ago, we attack'd all Comers and Goers, in Bond-street , by Hanover-square ; especially one that had been at Sea with my Companion, Johnson; but at that Time he said he liv'd with Col. Chartres, as a Butler: When we bid him Stand; he ask'd us, Whether we were upon our Funn, knowing of Johnson; we reply'd, You shall see whether we are upon Funn, so immediately show'd him our Pistols, at which he making a Noise, a Gentleman's Servant came out to his Assistance, but we soon made him quiet, for we laid hold of him, and was going to rob him, but he begg'd very much, and said, he was but a poor Servant, and had but a Crown and a Watch about him, we told him, If we would stand still and not stir, we would not hurt him; upon this the Footman did comply, and stood and look'd on all the Time that we was robbing of Johnson's Acquaintance, who said, he was formerly a Midshipman in the same Ship with him.

The next Night we met a Roman Priest, in Hanover-street , by Hanoversquare , as he was knocking at his own Door; we pull'd him off of the Steps, and push'd him up against his own Rails, when two Servant Maids on the other Side of the Way, looking out of their Windows, and seeing what we was doing; they cry'd out, upon which, Bryan, step'd over with a Pistol in his Hand, and swore, if they did not put down their Windows, he would shoot them; the Girls being frighted, put them down. Then we riffl'd Mr. Priest, and we took from him, a silver hilted Sword, a silver Watch, a green Purse, with 10 s. and 6 d. in Gold, and some Silver; we likewise took a Cane from him, but he begg'd we would be so kind as to return him his Cane again; accordingly we did. Since I have been under my Misfortunes, I sent to him, to let him know where I had pawn'd his Watch, but he never came, it lying but for 15 s. and I believe the Watch to be worth 5 or 6 l. but the Sword I sold to that honest Watch-maker, near the Sun-Tavern in Fleetstreet , for 18 s.

The chief Cause of my coming to this untimely End, and several more unhappy Creatures ruin, is owing to a Publick-House in St. Lawrence lane , St. Giles's in the Fields ; who countenances us in all our Robberies, and likewise Harbours us, whenever we have committed any: For in the back Part of the House, they have a Place where there is several Beds for us; and we can come in any Hour of the Night; and what we get we spend there upon vile Women; when all is gone, they encourage us to turn out again; and this unhappy Way of Life we live, till we are brought to this ignominious Death. I exhort all good People (especially the Officers of those Parishes, where there is such wicked Houses, which I am afraid there is too many in the City of London) to get them suppress'd; for many Parents in this popular City, who have Children, will be bound to pray for you.

I exhort more particularly, the Officers of St. Giles's in the Fields, to get that House above-mention'd suppress'd; for then Gentlemen may go in more safety about their lawful Business; and likewise in taking an Airing to Hampstead or High-gate, without being so frequently attack'd as they are.

There is one thing more, which would be very necessary to have suppress'd, and prosecuted to the utmost Severity of the Law, that is Persons who buys the Goods of us, which we call LOCKS: There is one B-, a Watch maker in Fleet-street, a very remarkable Man, he going almost double, with his two Knees meeting; I am willing to discribe him, that you may mark him from other Men: I have sold him Watches and Swords many Times, which I have taken from Gentlemen: And likewise he keeps a House of Ill-Fame in Fetter lane; to the great Disturbance of his honest Neighbours.

This I testify to be the Truth of the above Facts,

As I am a Dying Youth,

B. Fink.

In the Cells of Newgate , July 25, 1731.

5. John Drinkwater , near 19 Years of Age, of honest but mean Parents, Born at Plymouth , but was brought to London , when very young, and Educated at School to fit him for an Employment, and taught the Principles of the Christian Religion. When of Age, he was put to one that makes your Sand-Glasses in Hounsditch , and stay'd with his Master some Years, but frequently going out, and falling into the Acquaintance of bad Women, that he got such a Habit of idling away his Time, that he neglected his Master's Business, who began to suspect his Conduct, and that he was following evil Courses, and did not desire to keep such a wicked Fellow in his House any longer: He observing this, and the Master content to get

rid of him, went and liv'd at the other end of the Town, where a Friend (as he said) was to instruct him in Painting . He had not been gone about half a year from his Master, but he was taken up for the Robbery of which he was Convicted. He pretended a great many Excuses, as that Partridge the Evidence had taken him into a Shop to give him a Dram, and that as he came out, a Woman caus'd him to be taken up for what he was altogether Ignorant of; but this was but a Sham Excuse, for his Accomplices told me that he was Guilty; and when all hopes of a Reprieve were gone, he did not deny it. In his Confessions at first, he told several Falsehoods, as that he had always been a virtuous religious Boy, that he had been Obedient to his Parents, Dutiful to his Master, Observant of the Sabbeth, &c. But these I found to be but Pretences, while he entertain'd Hopes of a Reprieve; but when all such Expectations fail'd him, he own'd, that he was acquainted with Fink and the Rest of them, that he had Drunk and been frequent in Company with them; and he could not deny, but he had been a very perverse, wicked Boy, and that he was guilty of the Crime he was Convicted of. He said his Parents were in low Circumstances, and that he liv'd much with a Friend or two not far from Drury-lane , where he contracted Friendship and acquaintance with those Creatures, who drove him to his Ruin, and whose Example and Council he prefer'd before the good Advices of all his Friends who wish'd well to him. He behav'd well under his Misfortunes made regular Responces in Chapel, declar'd his Faith in Jesus Christ the Son of God and Saviour of Mankind, his Penitence unfeigned for the manifold Offences of his Life, and that he forgave all Injuries done him, as he hop'd for Pardon from God.

6. Nathaniel Lamprey , about twenty-three years of Age, of honest Parents in Town, who educated him at School for Business, and instructed him in necessary christian Principles When of Age, he was put to a Plaisterer in Town, whom he serv'd faithfully seven Years, and when his Time was out, he continu'd with him near two Years longer, till he was taken up; excepting that he got two or three Jobs on his own Account. He at first deny'd the Crime, and said a great many Things in his own Praises, but I was inform'd by his own Companions and another Hand, that he did commit the Robberies in the Indictments, and then he did not deny it, only in extenuation of his guilt, he said he stood at a Distance and got none of the Plunder; but on Saturday Evening before they suffer'd, I tax'd him on that Subject before his Partners, Yates, Drinkwater and Armstrong said, they wonder'd how he could frame such a Lye: Then they Question'd him, Did not you go out with us that Night upon the same Design? Was not you equally active with the Rest? Did not you Drink liberally with us before we went out? And Armstrong said,

did not I divide a Guinea or two, some Silver and such and such other Goods with you? he then only alledg'd, that he got not an equal Share of what was due to him, and was confounded at their mentioning all those Particulars which he could not deny. The Rest of them said, they believ'd it was his first Adventure, as every Body who knew him thinks it was, but otherways there's no doubt, he assisted in the Commission of four Robberies that Night. His Master and Mistress gave him an excellent Character of a good Servant, and were very much troubl'd that he had brought himself to so great a Misfortune. He was afflicted with Sickness, but kept the Chapel, and was apparently Devout and Penitent. He declar'd, that he died in the Faith of Christ and in Peace with all Mankind.

Thomas Clarkson , of Hayes, was Indicted for Assaulting Edward Philips on the Highway, putting him in Danger of his Life, and taking from him 3 Guineas and 2 s. in Money, the 28th of June last.

7. Thomas Clarkson , 23 Years of Age, born at Hampstead , and taught to read and write, and when of Age, put to a House Carpenter in Town, who (as he said) failing in the World, was unkind to him; after which he serv'd out his Time with another Master, and then did Journey-work, in and about the Town, 'till he was taken up for the Robbery for which he died. He said, he was always Honest in the preceeding Part of his Life, only there was some Difference between his first Master and him, which bred him some Vexation.

It was a Butcher, who made his escape, that took him to the Highway, where he committed the Robbery aforesaid, for which he was pursued and apprehended immediately, before he had Time to do any further Mischief. He was Sick, but came to Chappel, and behav'd himself gravely and devoutly. He was pusillanimous and wept much. He declar'd his Faith in Christ, that he was a sincere Penitent, and in Peace with all the World.

Thomas Granger , alias Coffil , of St. Mary-le-Bone , was Indicted for feloniously Stealing 38 Guineas, the Property of Benjamin Huffam , Esq; in the Dwelling-House of Charles Leman , Esq; the 29th of May last.

8 Thomas Grainger , 23 Years of Age Born in Shropshire , Educated to Read, and Write and in Christian Principles, was not of any particular Trade, but did Country-work and serv'd Gentlemen , with whom he came often to London , and whom he serv'd honestly and faithfully. He said, he had liv'd soberly in the preceeding Part of his Life, kept the Church, read God's Word and took the Sacrament. He serv'd Colonel Huffam three Months, about the End of which he broke open a thin Deal in the Burow, and took the 38 Guineas in the Indictment, upon a Temptation of the Devil without thinking upon what he was to do with them, and that he went to his own Country, where he could not fail to be apprehended: He own'd that he

had justly suffer'd for his Wickedness and Folly; and he behav'd with apparent Devotion; but a Day or two before his Death, he was very Discouraged and Sick, and when I visited him, he was desirous of Prayers, and appear'd mightily concern'd to obtain the Favour of God. He died in the Faith of Christ, Penitent, and in Peace with all Mankind.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THEY all complyed fervently with Prayers and singing of Psalms. Bernard Fink , desir'd his Relations and Friends might not be reflected on, as knowing nothing of his Villainies. After Prayers were over, he desir'd all young Men to take example from him, and all good People, to Pray for their Souls. Davis said that Morning of his Execution, that it was not he that stabb'd the Gentleman and scuffl'd with him in the Fields near Islington . He said he took it very unkind of a certain Person, in not coming to see him, under his Misfortunes, I should not have any ways injur'd him. He desir'd also, that the World might be acquainted, that he committed the Highway Robbery, for which one Walker was blamed, and that he is altogether innocent thereof. The rest of them added nothing but that they were in Peace with every Body, and desir'd good People to pray for them. They all left the Stage crying out, God have Mercy upon us, and Lord Jesus receive our Souls. Armstrong, Drinkwater, Fink, Lamprey and Yates, were of a Gang, and Partners in robberies in the Streets.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Notice to the Ladies and Gentlemen,

From Dr. Helmont, who Prepares for the Use of his own Family, and the Families of his Friends and Patients, amongst whom are many of Distinction and Quality.

THE TRUE SAL VOLATILE OLEOSUM, That Great and Noted RESTORER and PRESERVER OF HEALTH and LONG-LIFE.

BY which NUMBERS of PEOPLE having found Benefit even beyond all Expectation, in the most Chronical DISEASES, besides those of the Head, Spirit, and Nerves, they have prevailed with him to make it, in this Manner known, for the good of those who may not have heard of it.

Its exceeding Volatility, and peculiar aromatick Fragrancy and Efficacy, is what has gain'd it the esteem it is in, it fully answering in the various Maladies and Obstructions, which all Physicians in Europe ascribe the true Preparation, of this excellent Medicine to be good for, and which is so superiour to the common Sorts sold in the Shops, that upon comparing them together, there will be found as much Difference, both for Elegancy and Effects, as there is almost between two contrary Medicines; twenty Drops of this, containing more Vertue, than a Spoonful of those.

For in the Manner, and from the Ingredients, this is prepared, it is brought to the highest Perfection, and becomes the most powerful Cephalick, Stomachick, and Cardiack known and is withal the best Remedy for the Nerves, in the whole Materia Medica.

A few Drop of it, stirred well about, in a Glass of Water or Wine, or both together mix'd, makes a most delicious reviving Cordial, for it immediately raises and exhilerates the sinking Spirits, takes away all Sickness at Stomach, creates an Appetite, rectifies the Digestions, expels Wind, dispels Melancholly, relieves in the Hippo, Vapours, and Hysterick Fits; for it makes the Heart chearful, the Mind gay, delights the Intellects, comforts languid Nature, and warms, makes sprightly, and invigorates an old and cold Constitution.

It supports and lifts up, falling and drooping Spirits, dissolves Grumous, cuts sizy, moves stagnating, depurates feculent, and enriches an impoverished weakened Blood, facilitating the Circulations of that, and every other Juice of the Body.

By this Means it is, that it rouses in Lethargies, prevents Appoplexies, revives so wonderful in Heaviness and Faintness, fortides in Palpitation of the Heart, and in all sudden Surprizes, both by being inwardly taken and smelled to; and as it so momentarily penetrates and runs through all the Nerves, it greatly helps in Palsies, and all Weaknesses and Tremblings of the Joints and Limbs, and by Bathing them also with it, brings them, by Degrees, to their due Tone, Strength, and Morton.

A few Drops of it rubbed between the Palms of the Hands, and the Hands held immediately over the Nose and Eyes, drawing strongly the Scent up the Nostrils, gives instant, Ease in the most vehement Head-ach, Giddiness, Swimming Drowsiness, Faintings, and all other Disorders of the Head and Brain; and also helps to strengthen weak Eyes, especially if it be also rubbed often on the Temples, and behind the Ears.

And by being taken inwardly at the same time, prevents infinite Diseases, both of the Head and whole Body; and takes away Pains and Stitches of the Sides, Pleurisies and Rheumatisms.

These are the real Vertues confirmed by the Experience both of Physicians and Patients, of this true Sal Volatile Oleosum, and which are not inherent in the sorts that bear that Name; nor has there been any Thing more said of it, than what every one that tries it will assuredly find.

Is Sold in Half Crown Flint Bottles, fit for the Pocket, (seal'd up, with printed Directions how to take it, and use it) only at Mr. Isted's, Bookseller, at the Golden-Bll, near St. Dunstan's-Church in Fleet-street.

ELectuarium Mirable; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed, and Safety, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easie in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases, To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author, Dr. C A M, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden-Ball in Bow-Church-yard, Cheapside, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-sellers-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with, on any Occasion: And tho' (by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbam sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts. viz. I. On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaea, or Clap. III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout. Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Vindication of the Practice of Salivating. Price 1 s. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhil, E. M d winter in St. Paul's Church-yard, and at the Author's House before-mentioned.

