THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF FIVE MALEFACTORS, VIZ.

LEWIS MACKELY for a Burglary and Robbery, WILLIAM HOLLOWAY For a Robbery near the High-Way, THOMAS MURPHY for a Street-Robbery, JAMES GEARY for a House-Robbery, AND CORNELIUS SAUNDERS For stealing a Sum of Money out of a Dwelling-House; Who were executed at TYBURN on Wednesday August the 24th, 1763.

BEING THE SIXTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon . WILLIAM BECKFORD , Esq.

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

NUMBER IV. for the said Year.

LONDON:

Printed and sold by M. LEWIS, at the Bible and Dove, in Paternoster-row, near Cheapside, for the AUTHOR.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, &c.

BY virtue of the King's commission of the peace, oyer and terminer, and goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the city of London and county of Middlesex, at Justice-hall in the Old-Baily , before the Right Honourable William Beckford , Esq. Lord-Mayor of the city of London ; the Honourable Sir Thomas Parker , Knt. Lord Chief Baron of his Majesty's court of Exchequer ; the Honourable Henry Bathurst , Esq. one of the judges of his Majesty's court of Common-Pleas ; the Honourable Sir J. Eardly Wilmot, Knt. one of the judges of his Majesty's court of King's Bench; James Eyre , Esq. Recorder , and others of his Majesty's justices of oyer and terminer, &c. holden for the said city and county, on Wednesday the 6th, Thursday the 7th, Friday the 8th, Saturday the 9th, and Monday the 11th of July, in the third year of his Majesty's reign, nine persons were capitally convicted and received sentence of death, for the several crimes in their indictments set forth, to wit,

Richard Potter , Cornelius Saunders , John Brown , Lewis Mackely , William Holloway , William David , Thomas Murphy , James Geary , and William Hall .

Immediately after conviction, they were severally put into a cell as usual; a place contrived by the architect, no doubt with a view, first to safe-keeping, and then to a speedy execution; for they can scarce breathe, much less exercise in the compass of six or seven feet square, having neither air nor light but what is strained through a thick-barred iron grate, fixed in an aperture scarce so large as a port-hole, and yet so high above the head of the prisoner that it cannot admit light enough to read by, at the brightest noon-day, however needful and proper that exercise must be to those who can,

and are disposed to read in these their last hours. These dreadful tombs for the living are equally distressing in extreme heat or cold; and as to candle-light, their only resource, they can have no money of their own property to purchase that or any other necessary, being known to forfeit all, if perchance any be left, from the wretched rapacity of a prison, on their convicton. In these ill-favoured circumstances did this unhappy set of criminals languish and pine, several of them very near to death, for 6 or 7 weeks, from the beginning of July to the 24th of August; in a season when (it need not be said) air and light are most necessary for them, and most wanted to preserve life and prevent infection. A sad scene to which my attendance on this place has been less accustomed during the late war, wherein we have had few or no convictions at this season, most infectious to the prisoners and perilous to those who attend them.

If this representation from a daily eyewitness, which humanity can no more suppress, than true benevolence can forbear to relieve, should contribute to deter any rash and unwary adventurers now safe and at liberty, from blindly rushing into such circumstances as may render them liable to this dark and dreadful passage out of this life, into a worse, that will be one good purpose attained.

Whatever farther good designs may be quickened into life and motion from these, and yet higher considerations, by the powerful, the wise, and the good, of our honourable city and county; it may better become us, humbly to hope and wish, than to mention on this occasion. Only adding, that the cells are the best part of our present gaol: and that the four respited convicts have escaped more deaths than one: and 'tis hoped from the same mercy which has hitherto saved them, that if they be true penitents, and make a right use of what is past, they have undergone the worst of their sufferings.

On Thursday the 18th of August the report of the 9 malefactors made the foregoing day to his Majesty by Mr. Recorder, was communicated to the prisoners, when six of them were ordered for execution on Wednesday the 24th instant, namely, Lewis Mackely , William Holloway , Thomas Murphy , James Geary , Cornelius Saunders , and Richard Potter , and three respited, to wit, John Brown , William David , and William Hall .

1. Lewis Mackely was indicted for that he on the 7th of June, about the hour of 1 in the morning, the dwelling-house of Anthony Francis did break and enter, and one pair of silver shoe-buckles value 8s. one worsted purse value 1d. and 15 half-guineas, the property of Joseph de Magaline , and one pair of silver knee-buckles, the property of Henry Francis , in the said dwelling-house did steal.

In support of the charge against the prisoner, it was proved by Anthony Francis , living in Jonas-Court , East-Smithfield , that both the prosecutor and prisoner came together to lodge at his house about the 3d of June; that the prosecutor came home between 9 and 10 at night, the 7th, and lodging on the ground-floor, found himself robbed next morning, and the window-shutter of his room broke open. The prisoner not having come home that night, nor next morning to breakfast, was suspected, searched for and found in the usual trap for such offenders, a house of ill fame, in bed with a woman, where being secured, he owned he had got the buckles and money all safe, but pretended to make a joke of it, and that he was only

playing the rogue; that he got into the room by giving a knock at the window, took the money from his pocket and the buckles from his shoes and breeches. They recovered the 2 pair of buckles and 9 half-guineas, which had been deposited in the hands of M - y Cole, the keeper of the house in which he was taken. He was committed by a magistrate; and when tried, owned it went against him, and said nothing in his defence.

This poor convict, a tall well-made young-fellow, about 25 years of age, was called a Grecian, because he professed himself of the Greek church; he said he was born in Palestine , at or near Jerusalem . His people being there in a poor oppressed condition under the tyranny of the Turks, he was bred up to the sea , lived some years of the early part of his life at Portmahon , till it was taken by the French; since which he has served on board the English navy , till he was paid of at Plymouth , a few weeks before this fact. The prosecutor, a Portugueze in the same service, was paid off with him from on board the Blenheim. They had been shipmates therein about 2 months. Mackely received two guineas wages, and had but one left when he committed this fact. From the time of his conviction, though he appeared tolerably composed and resigned, he was deplorably wretched in his circumstances, being distempered and indigent both of clothes and food, and destitute of friends to help him; so that if he with most of his fellow-convicts had not been daily fed, by several well-disposed neighbours, particularly some of each of the nearest markets, and others who were applied to on this occasion, they might probably have been famished.

He daily attended our chapel, behaved with seeming decency, and when questioned, said, he understood the plain instructions there given, and joined in the prayers. It was his own option to do this: yet he was often claimed by those of the church of Rome; but after several attempts, he refused to be directed by them. A few days before he suffered he was twice visited by a clergyman of his own communion, to which he was admitted by him, and which appeared to confirm him in his peace of mind and submission to his lot. He was not however, sometime before this so peaceful and resigned as he now appeared to be, for he was detected to be deeply concerned in a conspiracy to break out by a very wicked and ungrateful attempt on those very runners and keepers who, had been kind and compassionate to him in his distress. He with a few more of these convicts, abusing the delay and forbearance of their execution to relapse into their former bad habits and evil thoughts, instead of improving it to their better preparation for eternity, had formed this weak but wicked scheme, after they found themselves included in the death-warrant. But it only made fresh work for a repentance yet less hopeful; made my attendance on them yet heavier and more disagreeable, calling for just and necessary reproofs, when consolation should have taken place, in the chapel, and occasioning them who were actively concerned to be chained down in their cells. Yet he still continued to join in prayer with us; and after repeated instruction, preparation, and examination, was finally admitted to the holy communion.

2. William Holloway was indicted for that he in a field or open place near the king's highway, on Robert Long did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear and danger of his life, and

taking from his person one silver watch, value 40s. his property, June 27.

The aggravations attending this fact, which was fully proved, and capital in itself, made it hopeless and impracticable to save this poor fellow's life, with all the interest and powerful application from which he flattered himself to expect it.

The prosecutor lived near the prisoner for three years past at West-end , beyond Hampstead , knew him when he saw him between Marybone and Hampstead , and believed he could not but be known to him. It was between 6 and 7 in the evening about Midsummer, a farmer and his people not far off making hay, and another man lying in the grass. The prisoner demanded Mr. Long's watch, and on his refusal and resisting, beat him about the face and head till he threw him into a gutter, forced his watch from him, and left him all bloody. He was immediately pursued by the prosecutor and others, till they found him lurking in a ditch. He offered to restore the watch, but it was not accepted; he was carried before a justice at Hampstead and committed. When tried, he could say nothing in his defence but the common excuse, that he was in liquor.

There seeems to be an unaccountable infatuation in this fact, so that when the convict was questioned about it, he could give no other reason but that he believed he was so strongly tempted to it by the d - l that he could not resist. And he now declared this was the first he had ever been guilty of. How truly, is a question. He appeared serious and penitent, and deeply affected with his condition. He was a lusty strait man, about 26 years of age, wore his own hair, of a light sandy colour, and looked like a labouring countryman; he had no arms when he committed the fact but his stick; he and the prosecutor were both on foot. He said he was born at Bassleton-Hare-Green , 12 or 14 miles beyond Reading in Berkshire . His parents were both labouring people, the father in husbandry, the mother in houshold work. He served 7 years to a gardener , one Joseph Seward , near Lord Stanhope's, within 2 miles of Reading ; after this, about his 20th year, he hired himself to 'Squire Allen, a wine-merchant at Edmonton ; he gave no account how he came to quit his places, but we find him last Winter a partner in carrying a sedan-chair , sometime for Lady Weymouth, and Lady Grey, in which employments nothing appeared against his honesty: he had witnesses to his character for this part of his time. He was visited by his wife as often as she could come, a sober serious woman, who has lived a servant in good families; she carried his petitions for him, and endeavoured to save his life. When they found all their endeavours were in vain, their grief at parting is not to be described: he lamented especially that he had not followed the good example of his wife, in keeping to his church and being a frequent communicant, nor regarded the good instruction and advice she used to read to him out of pious books. This they both mentioned as matter of grief to him, and credit to her, that she had laboured to keep him to his duty. He has left one son of 2 years old. Poor Holloway was one of those who suffered much by being long shut up in a close cell, being gradually changed and worn down from a fresh coloured, hale, strong man, to almost a mere skeleton, for some time unable to move out of his cell, or eat, or creep up to chapel, which he never omitted when able to attend; and though illiterate, he

behaved there with attention and devotion, in which he was so far improved that he was well instructed and very desirous to receive the holy-communion some days before he suffered, being free and open in the confession of his past transgressions, and mentioning some which he had hitherto concealed. When the death-warrant came, he was excessive in his sorrows, weeping and wailing more than the rest; even they who had almost forgot to expect it, being awakened at the terrors of an approaching fixt day of death, began to cry aloud in prayer both day and night in their cells.

3. William David , William Bragger , and James Murphy , were indicted for robbing John Nelson on the King's high-way of a watch, value 30s. and a hat, value 10s. his property, May 27.

On this charge Bragger was acquitted, as it appeared by the confession of William David , he only had received the watch and ran off with it, after David had taken it out of the prosecutor's pocket by the help of a third accomplice, who held him. David being condemned, was respited; he is a lad of about 14 years, was instrumental in getting the watch restored to the prosecutor, and detecting the other accomplices: so that it only remains to give an account of Murphy. The strongest proof against him arose from the evidence of Cath. Cartwright , by her own account a street-walker of Drury-Lane , and his own behaviour after the affair, as it appeared on his trial and since his conviction. Cartwright's evidence that she saw Murphy knock down the prosecutor, after she had been drinking with him, viz. M - y, a little before; this Murphy denied to be true from first to last. Murphy and Bragger resisting and fighting furiously the first time an attempt was made to take them by David's direction, then escaping and absconding for about a month; and after he was taken, designing and pressing to be admitted an evidence: Bragger and Murphy drinking together the evening the robbery was committed at the house of Edmond Turner , a near neighbour to the prosecutor; and at their trial neither of them saying or proving any thing in their defence: these are all strong symptoms of guilt; which are mentioned because he denied his being concerned in this fact; and that David knew the affair and the accomplices is evident, not only from his own confession, but also from their recovering the watch, and finding out the men by his direction: he persisted to say Murphy was concerned in this robbery, though he was not the person who knocked down the prosecutor, as Cath. Cartwright had sworn.

Thomas Murphy , a little turned of 20 years of age, was born in Dublin , where he was brought up by his parents, people of substance, in the farming and cow-keeping business . He kept with them till the age of 17, and had a common school education, when in an idle frolic he quitted them, and went off with a young fellow his comrade to Gibraltar , unknown to his friends: he there entered on board the Scarborough , a frigate of 20 guns, in which he served in the West-Indies some part of the war: he gave no account how he quitted this ship, and afterwards belonged to the St. Florentine, from whence he was paid off at Chatham , about six months ago, and received about 16l. which he owns he earned hardly and spent foolishly. Said he was going to sea again in the merchants service, up the Straits with Captain Harman, but unluckily came into town to take leave of his old acquaintance and shipmate Bragger, whom he met with

near Covent-Garden , in company with another, and the boy David, whom he declares he had never seen before; and because he was seen with them the same night this fact was committed, he was taken up, tried, and cast for it. This was the story he told after his conviction. He daily attended the chapel with William David , who was for some time in the same cell with him: where they had also proper books lent them to employ their time in preparing for their great change. These were the only two of the 8 convicts who now came to chapel, that could read the Psalms and service, and make their responses. They continued thus for some days, behaved decently themselves, and by reading audibly, were of service to the ignorant convicts, till the mother of William David coming to visit him, claimed him, as being baptized into the church of Rome , and committed him from henceforward to the care of the visitor of that persuasion, who, together with his mother, influenced him now to make that his choice, though contrary to his profession and practice hitherto, as he declared quickly after his conviction: and his familiar use and ready practice in the liturgy plainly proved it; for he was bred up at a protestant school at Covent-Garden , and then a surgeon's boy on board a ship in the navy . Remonstrances were made concerning this invasion of our province, but to no effect. This is but one instance out of numberless and worse cases, wherein the threats and arts of blind superstition and zealous bigottry prevail over the persuasive means of sound and rational religion. It is to be wished that our well-tempered zeal were proportioned to our knowledge, and the truth and goodness of our cause. That more diligence and vigilance were employed in looking into the practices of our adversaries in this way, both at home and abroad: it might perhaps be better for our domestic tranquility, as well as the peace and security of our American colonies and conquests.

The like attempts were made upon Murphy, under the same pretence. He acknowledged he was baptized into the church of Rome , but as he grew up, preferring our principles and worship, he usually frequented it; and though for awhile he seemed careless, indifferent, and wavering, yet, his doubts and scruples being now removed, he finally fixt with us.

Of the fact for which he suffered, being questioned after the death-warrant, he gave the following particulars; that Bragger led him into the company of William David and one James Foster , whom he sometimes called Morris ; they met in the piazza at Covent-Garden ; Murphy said, he went into the Crown and Cushion , kept by Mr. Turner, in Russel-Street , facing Drury-Lane theatre , that, in the mean time, Foster and the lad David, seeing Nelson, (the prosecutor, who is a taylor , living in that neighbourhood) coming up and in liquor, Foster said to David, I'll take him by the hand while you mill his watch. They did so; then Bragger got it from the boy, and ran away. Nelson missing his watch, ran after the boy; on which Foster pursued Nelson and knocked him down, took up his hat, and threw his own hat to him, but got it again. Next morning Nelson on the search, fell in company with Foster, and said to him, I could swear to you being the man that knocked me down. Foster answered, I'll bring one to convince you of the contrary, then went out, ran away, and made his escape to Liverpool . By this account he would prove that he was not

concerned in this fact, which he still persisted in denying. It proves, he knew who was concerned, and that he was privy to the practices of Bragger and Foster, with whom he owned he had spent his money in a bad manner, but would not directly confess he was concerned in any crime with them; being farther questioned, he denied that he offered to turn evidence against them, but that it was proposed to him by one in whose custody he was. It must be owned, he was neither so open in his confession, nor so hearty and steadfast in his course of repentance, during the whole time between sentence and execution, as could be wished; but relapsed into some of his former bad habits, of profane and wicked conversation; and was believed to be privy to Mackely's design of making an escape, notwithstanding he was twice visited with heavy sickness in the cells, and reduced so low that he was expected to die in that lingering way.

To this account of Murphy, may be annexed some few things concerning Potter, since respited, who was for some time in the same cell with him, in order to take care of and help each other during the severe sickness with which they were alternately visited at first, and then both reduced so low, that they appeared unable to a assist each other, or themselves.

Richard Potter , otherwise Pollard , was indicted for feloniously assuming the name and character of Andrew M'Gee , the said Andrew being entitled to certain prize-money for services done on board his Majesty's ship the Burford , in order to receive the said money, against the peace of our lord the king, his crown and dignity, May 5.

He is about 20 years of age, born in the Isle of Wight , bred to the sea from his 10th year, first in the coasting trade, carrying corn and groceries ; and then in the navy , first in the Devonshire tender, then in the Africa; afterwards on board the St. Janeiro, a Spanish prize, in which he was cast away in the downs, from which however he received about 4 guineas wages, in Spring last. To this fact he says he was over-persuaded by one G - n, a ship-mate to M'Gee, who promised him half a guinea for his trouble, and pretended he would pay the residue of the 35 s. to his mess-mate M'Gee. 'Tis possible this poor illiterate lad might not know his danger, nor see the iniquity of being thus made a cat's-paw by a more artful and wicked fellow. He was prevented from compleating his guilt, in receiving the prize-mony, and made an open confession of his fault as soon as he was detected, in the office. He has been teachable, and remarkably attentive to instruction and prayers ever since his conviction: and now that he is happily become an object of his Majesty's mercy, employs himself daily in learning to read, (for which proper books, and some assistance are given him) and attending his duty in the chapel: and it is hoped he will never again incur the like danger of so many deaths; and especially that infamous one to which he has been exposed; earnestly wishing his brother sailors may be warned to avoid every snare and temptation to this and the like crimes.

4. James Geary was indicted for that he, in company with Charlotte Bonney , not taken, on the 5th of June, between the hours of 3 and 5 in the afternoon, the dwelling house of Terence Havers did break and enter, no person being therein, and stealing 2 silver salt-sellers, 6 silver table-spoons, 2 silver tumblers, a pair of silver shoe-buckles, 12 silver

coat-buttons, a pair of silk stockings, a sattin handkerchief, 2 guineas, one quarter guinea, and 4l. 19s. in money numbered, the property of the said Terence, in the said dwelling-house.

This robbery, to the value of 63l. or thereabout, seems to be the effect of a scheme laid by the two parties mentioned in the indictment. Bonny having gone lately to lodge in the house, contrived to stay at home in church-time, and by help of this Geary her visitor, who was a smith , broke open the apartment of her landlord the prosecutor, and robbed him. This was proved by some of the goods being found upon him, when taken, and also by being seen with a bundle coming out of the house a quarter after four, soon after the robbery was committed. He aggravated his crime by threatening to murder the prosecutor as he was carried to Newgate in a coach.

James Geary , a lusty, strong man, 36 years of age, was born in Dublin , where he left a wife and child; he was by trade a farrier , at which he has wrought in and about London for some years, partly in Smithfield and the Old-Baily , and used to frequent a public house near the prison: he is said also to have been familiar among some of the inmates of Fleet-Lane , and that neighbourhood, on whose account he has been seen rather too often at Guildhall , when they were called in question, or their liberty in danger. 'Tis said by his friends, that he wrought diligently at his trade for 3 or 4 years, till he got acquainted in that way; but has ever since been in the road to ruin. He professed himself of the church of Rome , in which he continued, and being attended by a gentleman of that persuasion, afforded little opportunity of conversing with him. His behaviour since his conviction is said to have been quiet, submissive, and becoming his circumstances. Hopes were entertained and communicated to him of having his life spared, for this crime, on account of some services he had done in the prison; which would not, probably, have been disappointed, but for the unsurmountable objection of his having been tried, though acquitted, last session, for being concerned with two others in the robbery of a young woman near Islington ; on account of which he was not cleared of the gaol above a fortnight before he was again taken up for this charge. When this objection was mentioned to him as the obstacle to mercy, he declared he was innocent of it; but did not pretend he was clear of the present affair.

5. Cornelius Saunders was indicted for stealing four 3l. 12s. pieces, six 36s. pieces, 7 guineas, 4 half-guineas, and 4s. 6d. in money numbered, the property of Joseph White , in his dwelling-house, May 27.

This prisoner was soon detected and apprehended, by boasting that he had found a sum of money in a shoe in Moor-fields ; and then rigging himself out much finer than usual with new clothes and silver buckles. And though he confessed, when in custody of the constable, that the pieces of money found upon him were Mrs. White's, the prosecutor's, pròperty, found by him in a shoe in her cellar, and most of it was recovered, yet, another part of his behaviour greatly aggravated this felony; when being asked by Mrs. Dobey, partner to Mrs. White, are not you a great rogue to rob her that has been better than a mother to you? he replied, with a bitter curse against her, and said, what is that to you; and when ordered by the justice to deliver up

the silver buckles bought with her money, he said, no, blast me, I will not: this shews his heart was obstinately set on coveting and keeping that which he had unjustly gotten, and too probably shut that door of favour and mercy against him, which otherwise would very likely been opened to him: for indeed this unhappy offender seems to have been drawn into this fact rather by surprize, and the temptation falling in his way, than by ill design; he fell rather for want of virtue and resolution to resist, than through an active premeditated evil purpose. It seems he has dealt with Mrs. White, the prosecutor's wife, for small tubs, called salmon-kits, for 13 years past: it is part of his employment to turn them into small washing-tubs. Having bought a number of these, he was entrusted to go down to a cellar and take them away; being almost blind, he groped them out as well as he could, in doing of which, this sum of money, amounting to 35l. nearly, fell in his way, and was by him seized as good prize, but it proved his bane.

On the first sight of him, at chapel, after conviction, his case not being known to me, he was asked what he was convicted for? he answered, for a thing which a thousand others would have done as well as he. He was told, a thousand others might do wrong, and suffer for it. He daily frequented the chapel, and had the advantage of hearing and attention superior to those who saw better, and were more liable to be amused by various objects: but he rarely spoke, or made any responses, acknowledging he was little accustomed to the church-service, but had sometimes gone to the Tabernacle. He seemed to enjoy health better than most other of the convicts, was peaceful and resigned, and answered whenever he was asked, that he employed his time in repentance and prayer, and preparation for death, to the best of his ability. Saunders was 33 years of age, born at Amsterdam , of Dutch parents, who came here about 23 years ago: in 10 weeks after which, he had the small-pox, and thereby lost his eye-sight , all except one corner, by which he could guide himself in the way. He used now and then to sell greens in the markets , and call them for the carters in the streets, for which he had a remarkable loud voice. Beside this way of trade, a cooper had taught him out of charity, to fit up the salmon kits before-mentioned, and sell them , by which he could earn 14 or 15 s. a week. This is the account he gave of his manner of living, till he fell into this fatal snare: from whence it is plain he might have been comfortably supported, and usefully employed many years, had he lived in the fear of God, a dependance on his providence, and obedience to his laws. He fell a warning to all, not to quit the path of honest industry for the gilded bait of unlawful gain, nor give way to a sudden temptation, however alluring and seemingly convenient for the present, since the consequences will be bitter as gall and wormwood.

On the morning of execution.

It was whispered when I went to visit them, between 6 and 7, that a respite came late the night before, for one, but it was not known which of the 6 convicts. They all went up to chapel-Murphy, for the quiet of his conscience, opened himself more freely than he had done hitherto; said, that he had been 6 or 7 years to sea , was at London 5 years ago, being then apprentice to Henry

Murphy, master of the Fortune brig; that he fell into no bad courses then, having stayed here but a few weeks, but of late has been concerned in two street-robberies with two young fellows now gone to sea; the one about Lincoln's-Inn-Fields , the other at St. George's Fields , in the Borough; that they also made a practice of running away with hats, which he had no notion of till these two led him in. He hoped they would take warning by him, to forsake their bad ways.

William Holloway also with great contrition, confessed, that being alone on the Edgware road on foot, he robbed a foot-traveller, a thick, full, middle-aged man, of one guinea and a quarter, and a few shillings. It was the beginning of last Winter. That he had committed no other fact on the high-way but that for which he died. But had stolen four guineas out of the box of an Irishman who lodged in the same house with him at Walthamstow in Essex , who had left his key in his box; and a guinea from another man. For all which, both he and Murphy earnestly prayed for pardon of God, and the injured parties. They all oined in prayers and receiving the holy-communion, with some good neighbours, who were present. Holloway wept much. All behaved with humility, sorrow, and esignation. It was made known that Potter was respited soon after divine service was ended. He was so calm that it did not seem to affect him much at present.

At half an hour past nine they were ade ready to be carried out. Saunders, Murphy and Holloway in the first cart, Mackely and Geary in the second; the tter was double-ironed with fetters on th legs, and to them a chain and lock, which he was fastened to the cart. ach of his hands was also locked, and both joined with a chain; to all which he seemed to submit with a quiet composure. A rumour having prevailed that Geary was to be rescued by a mob at St. Giles's , gave occasion to this precautionary order from authority, that he should be so secured in the cart. They got to the fatal place in about an hour. It took near half an hour to disengage them from the cart, and tie them up to the tree. After which they were asked, Whether they had hope in God's mercy through Christ? whether they were resigned? and in peace? to which they gave satisfactory answers; and their behaviour seemed to confirm it. They agreed to desire the multitude, which was very large, to join in prayer with and for them; which they did with decency. They themselves prayed earnestly; Murphy making responses audibly for himself, and the rest who could not read.

They were severally asked, Whether they had any thing farther to say, either publicly by way of warning, or in private by way of acknowledgement? Holloway answered, he had nothing farther to say but what he said to his friend; he meant one habited like a chairman, who had been in close conversation with him in the cart, before prayers.

Murphy only repeated it, that he was not guilty of the fact for which he suffered; and that she was a common woman who swore falsly against him. He had said also in the chapel, after the death-warrant came, " God forgive her that swore my life away falsely!" Mackely and Saunders had nothing to say.

While these four joined with us in prayer, Geary was invited to do the same, but refused, and kept reading and praying in his own book, with his face toward us. He was told, we would con

tinue to pray for him to the last, as we had hitherto done.

A little before prayers were ended, some loud cracking of the timber in the nearest galleries was heard, which alarmed and terrified the numerous crouds that were on and near them, occasioned the latter to retreat, and several of the former to swing themselves down at the peril of their bones: it caused a short interruption in prayer, the sufferers turning their heads about to observe many who seemed to be as near death as themselves. Having gone through the proper and usual acts of devotion, and confession of faith, and given the final benediction, we parted. They continued to pray devoutly after their caps were put on, and drawn over their faces, and when the cart was moving from under them, they cried aloud in prayer, beseeching the Lord Jesus to receive their spirits. Many present were much affected, even to tears; all seemed serious, with a mixture of some complacence to see these poor destitute sinners make an hopeful exit, which seemed to promise a deliverance out of all their sufferings.

P. S. It has been reported that the poor breathless corps of Saunders was inhumanly abused by a giddy multitude, to the purposes of a lawless riot, and misapplied revenge, so directly contrary to the temper in which he closed his life; for beside that he died in charity with all, I never heard that he once reflected on his prosecutors, or murmured at his lot; and I am persuaded, could he, at that instant, have opened his mouth, he would have spoken to this purpose, " Beware rash men! ye call ” yourselves christians, now is the time “ to prove your title! judge not, that ye “ be not judged. Dearly beloved, avenge “ not yourselves, nor me, in your mistaken rage and fury; but hear a voice “ more tremendous than the loudest “ peals of thunder. - It is written, vengance is mine, saith the LORD, and I “ will repay - the wrong-doer.”

“ May the Almighty Prince of peace, “ who stilleth the waves, who ruleth the “ raging of the sea, and the madness of “ the people, stablish and strengthen our “ most gracious and amiable Sovereign, “ with every rank and order of men, “ throughout his wide dominions, in “ peace and piety, in duty and safety, at “ home and abroad."

This is all the account given by me,

STEPHEN ROE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

