THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the EIGHT MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the 17th of JUNE, 1751.

BEING THE Fifth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble Francis Cokayne , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER V. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LI.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Rt. Hon. FRANCIS COKAYNE , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Honourable Sir THOMAS BURNET , the Honourable Baron CLIVE, and RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, for the City of London, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City of London, and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday the 17th, Thursday the 18th, Friday the 19th, Saturday the 20th, and Monday the 22d of April, in the twenty-fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign, GARRAT BUNN , WILLIAM GIBBS , and EDWARD WARD were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer and Terminer, &c. before the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor, Sir THOMAS DENNISON , Baron LEGGE, &c. on Thursday the 23d, Friday the 24th, Saturday the 25th, and Monday the 27th of May, in the twenty-fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign, JOSEPH PEACOCK , THOMAS QUIN , WILLIAM DOWDELL , THOMAS TALBOT , WILLIAM HATTON , PHILIP GIBSON , ROBERT DAMSELL , MICHAEL LEVI , and HENRY BOYTEN , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

Bunn, Gibbs, and Ward have behaved with all Quietness and Decency to all Appearance since Conviction; most of the rest required good looking after to keep in any tolerable Decorum. They all attended Prayers in the Chapel, till the Gentleman appeared who attends on those unhappy Persons of the Roman Catholick Persuasion. William Dowdell and Quin declared themselves of that Way. And after some time, Ward, Bunn, and Talbot became Roman Catholicks some how or other; and only Gibbs, Peacock, Hatton, and Damsell remained Protestants, who were pretty constant Attendants in the Chapel to the last.

1. Gerrard Bunn , was indicted for that he, in his own Dwelling-house, did make an Assault on Frederick Benson , and one Rug Coat, Value fourteen Shillings, one Rug Waistcoat, Value five Shillings, one Knife, and one Linen Handkerchief, against the Will of the said Frederick, from his Person did steal, March 18 .

2. William Gibbs , was indicted for stealing 23 Guineas, the Money of John Duncombe , in the Dwelling-house of the said John, March 13 .

3. Edward Ward , was indicted for that he, on the second of November, about the Hour of three in the Morning, the Dwelling-house of Miles Childery did break and enter, and nine Pewter Dishes, Value twenty Shillings, the Property of the said Miles, and one Hat, the Property of John Narbury , did steal, take, and carry away .

4. Joseph Peacock , was indicted for that he, in Company with two others unknown, on the King's Highway, on John Collison did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, &c. and one Gold Watch, Value 10 l. one Man's Hat and Crape Hatband, Value five Shillings, against his Will, from his Person did steal, &c. May 1 .

5, 6, 7. Thomas Quin , Joseph Dowdell , and Thomas Talbot , otherwise Crawford , were indicted for that they, on the King's Highway, on George Rook did make an Assault, putting him in Fear and Danger of his Life, one Silver Watch, Value forty Shillings, two Guineas, and twenty Shillings in Money numbered, from his Person, and against his Will, did steal, take, and carry away, &c. May 12 .

8. William Hatton , otherwise Forrester , was indicted for that he, in Company with David Jones , on the twenty-third of April, between the Hours of One and Two, the Dwelling-house of David Paul did break and enter, and six China Cups, Value twenty Shillings, four China Saucers, one Bow China Tea-pot, one Earthen Tea-pot, two Pickle Dishes, Earthen Ware, one Earthen Fish Strainer, one Shew-Glass, and other Things, did steal, take, and carry away .

9. Philip Gibson , was indicted for that he, on the King's Highway, on John Davis did make an Assault, putting him in Corporal Fear and Danger of his Life, one Iron Snuff-Box, Value one Shilling, one Linen Handkerchief, Value Eight-pence, one Penknife, Value Three-pence, and one Halfpenny in Money, from his Person did steal, &c. April the 29th .

10. Robert Damsell , was indicted for that he, together with Samuel Allen and John Dawes , on the King's Highway, on William Head did make an Assault, putting him in Corporal Fear and Danger of his Life, and one Gelding, of a dark Bay Colour, Value twenty Pounds, four Pistols, Value eight Pounds, one Bridle, one Saddle, and Furniture, the Goods of Thomas Wilson , Esq ; and ten Shillings in Money numbered, did steal, &c. May 14 .

11. Michael Levi , was indicted for that he, not having the Fear of God before his Eyes, nor regarding the Order of Nature, on Benjamin Taylor , an Infant, of twelve Years of Age and upwards, did make an Assault, and feloniously, wilfully, and diabolically did carnally know, and with him the said Benjamin did commit and perpetrate that abominable Crime of Sodomy, to the great Displeasure of Almighty God, &c. March 25 .

12. Henry Boyten , was indicted for forging an Acquittance for the Payment of five Guineas, with Intent to defraud , to the following Purport:

Received of Capt . Henry Boyten five Pounds five Shillings, for Wages, and all other Demands, by me,

John Badesta Morisca .

Aug. 30, 1749.

1. WILLIAM GIBBS , aged 40, was born in the Parish of St. James's , Westminster , taught to read and write, and bred a Carpenter by Trade. He was brought up well for the Son of People of an ordinary Station in Life, and says he might have done well, had he pursued those Instructions which they caused him to be furnished with in his early Days. He served his Apprenticeship of seven Years faithfully, and worked as Journeyman very diligently for some Time after, till he had saved some Money; and getting married, set up in Business for himself, to try his Fortune in the World, and had two Apprentices when he was taken into Custody upon Account of the Fact for which he suffered; one of them he turned over to another Master, since his Confinement in Newgate ; the other went away, and he has not heard of him since. He says himself that he lived in good Repute in his Neighbourhood, but his Neighbours seemed to say the contrary.

In our first Conversation he said he had lived a very orderly Life, and constantly attended his Duty to God in the Church, scarce ever absenting himself on a Sunday; but that latterly indeed he had forsaken his God, and he seared God had forsaken him. It pleased God, he says, to afflict him with Sickness, of which he thought he should have died; in the Time of which Affliction he had considered his Ways, and found himself very much wanting in his Duty. He then made faint Resolutions of Amendment, but afterwards forgot that God had been gracious unto him, and returned to as bad, if not worse Practices, than before he had been used to. He owned thus far; that he had forsaken God and Religion, and given himself up to Idleness and Drunkenness, the Fountain of Iniquity of all Kinds, to loose and disorderly Company, and to Gaming. He pretended however he had never wronged any Body, and persisted to the last to declare he took the Purse only in a Jest, intending to give Mrs. Duncombe a Caution to be more careful for the future; and gives an Account of the Transaction, under his own Hand, in the following Manner. He behaved well under Sentence of Death in the general, had at Times great Reluctance, and shewed Marks of Contrition.

The Case of the unhappy WILLIAM GIBBS , now under Sentence of Death.

ON the 13th of March I went to the House of John Duncombe , at Nine at Night, to get a Pint of Beer. I lived five Doors from him. I sat down to drink my Beer, and in came Litchfield, Corbet, Smith, Jackson, and one Gordon; Litchfield went away, and left the rest; Smith and Corbet went to Cards, and Wine came in plentifully. I being a Neighbour, was desired to take Part, which I did. About Two o'Clock Mrs. Duncombs took her Purse, and dropt it over the Bar, I believe, in the Sight of all, except Jackson, who was drunk, and asleep on the Ground, notwithstanding he took upon him to swear hard against me, and was scarce able to stand or sit upon a Chair. I seeing Mrs. Duncombe so careless, and for no other Reason than to make her careful another Time, took the Purse, thinking it was Silver, (and not imagining a Sum of that Consequence would be so heedlessly handled) took it, and went and laid it on a Bulk, (which, by the bye, was his own Wife's Green-Stall) a few Yards from Duncombe's Door. Mrs. Duncombe missing the Purse, cried out, I have lost twenty-three Guineas; which frightened me almost out of my Senses, and she called her Husband. I denied the taking of it, and desired the Servant to call my Wife, thinking to get her to bring the Purse, and drop it in the Bar, or thereabouts; for, when I heard of the Sum, my Heart melted within me. Mr. Duncombe said, There's no Occasion to call any Body, it is a Joke, and I will give a Bottle of Wine, and a free Pardon, and Thanks to him that will give an Account of it. I was very glad to hear that, and called him Backwards into the Yard, and said, Mr.

Duncombe, I am sorry I should jest with such edged Tools, I little thought the Contents, but as I am a Neighbour, and live in Credit, pray let it go no farther; he said it should not; I told him where it was, and sent him for it. The Purse he had intire, and brought in a Bottle of Wine; and shook Hands; and, to all Appearance, were good Friends, as formerly, I having used his House ever since he kept it. And when he went to take Ship to go to Scotland, and carried a great Charge of Money, he chose me to conduct him, at Midnight, from Hyde-Park Corner to Hermitage Stairs . I really loved him, and would have done him any Service, as soon as I would have done it for myself; but a Person in Company, Corbet by Name, said we could not make the Matter up without going before a Justice. We agreed to go, Mr. Duncombe, myself, and another, privately. We did so, and Mr. Duncombe told the Justice, who lives near Golden Square, St. James's, that it was a Jest, but that he wanted to be safe, and we were recommended to give general Releases. While my Wife was gone to get Releases drawn, an inveterate Enemy of mine came into the publick House where we were waiting, who called Mr. Duncombe out, and persuaded him to go to another Justice, and take out a Warrant for me, and before my Wife came back with the Releases, they had served a Warrant on me; and although we were within five or six Doors of the aforesaid Justice, they were ashamed to take me there, but took me about a Mile to another, by whom I was committed, although before recommended for Releases by the other. It plainly appears I had no Intent to keep the Purse or Contents for several Reasons: As first, No Person could lay it on me more than another, for there were four Persons in the House besides myself, and, as I am a dying Man, I never had a Thought of defrauding him of a Shilling. Secondly, I, as a Friend and Neighbour, have been Night and Day entrusted in his House, all the same as his Brother, and he never lost any thing as I ever heard of. Lastly, My Circumstances were not so bad as to cause me to do an ill Action, for I kept two Shops, one at Hammersmith , where my aged Father and Mother lives, and the other at Hyde-Park Corner ; and when I came into Trouble I had two Apprentices, one of whom I have turned over since I have been in Newgate . I have a Wife and three Children, a Father and Mother, the one 80, the other 85 Years of Age, whose grey Heirs, without God's great Mercy, will be brought with Sorrow to the Grave. When this great Misfortune happened to me, I worked for a great many noble Families, and I praise God, wherever I worked there was nothing lost. That unhappy Day, the 13th of March, I had been part of it at work at a worthy Gentleman's, and was weary, and wanting a Pint of Beer before I went to Bed, could not be content to have it at Home with my Family, but must unfortunately go to the House, whereby I put myself in the Way of this great Misfortune, and if it be the Will of Divine Providence that I must suffer, I am content and resigned.

William Gibbs .

May, 1751.

In this Light he looked upon the Matter to the last, nor would he be persuaded to see it in any other; and I leave the Reader to determine, whether or not, according to his own Account of the Matter, there is the Appearance of a felonious Intent. Besides, the Method he would have made use of to save himself, when before the Justice, by whom he was committed, favoured much of a bad Principle; for, in order to screen himself, and save his Life, which he thought to be in Danger, he made Information before that Gentleman against eleven Persons, whom he pretended to be concerned with in several Robberies. Two of them were taken up, and Warrants issued out against the others; but, upon the Justice's telling him, that unless his Information was supported by some other Evidence, it would be of no Avail to him: He next contrived to send a Letter toa certain Thief-taker, desiring him to appear before the said Justice, and swear a Robbery against Gibbs and some of the others he had informed against, or he was still in a bad Condition: But, unfortunate for him, his Letter came to the Justice's Hands, and his wicked Scheme to swear away innocent People's Lives, to save his own, was detected; however, the Justice thought he had reason sufficient to commit Gibbs. The two Persons taken upon his Information were set at Liberty, and the Warrants against the others withdrawn; but Gibbs being brought to Trial for the above Offence, was, upon full Evidence found Guilty, and suffered accordingly.

EDWARD WARD , aged 21, was born at Waterford in the Kingdom of Ireland , of poor Parents, who gave him no Education, and very ignorant he was, but had a great deal of low Cunning. His Mother dying while he was an Infant, his Father enlisted for a Soldier, and, coming up to London , brought this unfortunate Youth along with him, when he was about eight Years of Age. After he had been in London about two Years, and supported by his Father, he was bound Apprentice to a Cutler on Towerhill, whom he served about four Years and an half, and then ran away from him. After this he took to the Sea , and went before the Mast in several Ships of War, particularly in three different Ships, which he says were stationed on the Coast of Scotland during the late troublesome Times in those Parts. It seems he passed for a quiet harmless Fellow on board, and was not out of the Government Service, till discharged, when there was no more Call for him. When he came ashore again, he says he applied to the Trade for Business, and got Employment, and when he did work, he could get his 16 d. a Day in the Cutlery way. Happy had it been, had he had the Grace to follow this honest Employment, whereby he got so good a Livelihood, but the contrary has proved his Ruin.

At first, after Conviction, he was used to go to Chapel to Prayers, and I had an Opportunity of speaking with him, but afterwards he took it in his Head, about five or six Weeks after convicted, to be a Roman Catholick , and our Conversation was at an End. While I held Converse with him, he all along protested against having been concerned in any more than two-Robberies, and would not allow, that that for which he was convicted was one of the two, notwithstanding what the Evidence so positively swore against him and others. With Relation to his Confession of it,

He says, the first Robbery he ever committed, was upon one Elizabeth Knot , and Henry Thompson , the 22d of July, 1749, and that he, and Thomas Robinson , and John Cross , a Negroe since executed, did rob the two Persons abovementioned in a back Lane, opposite St. George's Church in the East , and Ward was particularly active in these Robberies, but being admitted an Evidence escaped for that Time. Another Time he own'd, that he went out with John Robinson , the Evidence against himself, and they broke open an House in Whitechapel , from whence they stole a Quantity of Tea, and got off undiscovered; but as to the Robbery and Burglary for which he was convicted, he obstinately denied it, so long as I had any Opportunity to talk with him.

The Truth is, he had been for three Years past upon the Lay, and had a Hand in diverse Robberies, so many that he could not remember their Number, and might have gone on still, had not he and Robinson sell out, and threatened to take away each other's Life by Information; however, Robinson had the good Luck to be before-hand with him, and went to the Thief-takers, informed them first against Ward, and directed them where he was to be met with, and accordingly they found him. Ward hoped again to be made an Evidence, but the other appearing more ingenuous in his Confession, and declaring more than Ward chose to do, was admitted an Evidneceagainst him, who had had his Turn before. He was an unhappy ignorant Creature, but very wickedly inclined, and being, without all Instruction, left wild to the Drist of impetuous Passions. Heseem'd lost to all Sense of having an Account to pass hereafter, shewing much greater Regard to the Preservation of his Body, when dead, than to provide for the Salvation of his Soul, that it might live forever hereafter; for a Gentleman's Curiosity leading him up to the Chapel, (who was a Surgeon) and discovered by some of them that had some Knowledge of him, Ward particularly expressed himself, that he would not come there to be exposed to the View of Surgeons, and was as good as his Word for once, for he never came to Chapel again.

An unhappy Wretch! that nothing but Death could put an End to his Wickedness; and many a Time had he undergone the Discipline due to a Pick-pocket, as his Accomplices say, and once he escaped Hanging by being admitted an Evidence. And though he had thus himself contributed towards an Example of such Miscreants being made; yet could he not forbear, but Wickedness trod upon his Heels to the Grave.

THOMAS QUINN , aged 29, was born in Thomas-street in Dublin , in the Kingdom of Ireland ; his Father was a very honest Man, and during his Life-time, bred up this unhappy young Man in the Tracts of Honesty and Virtue; he did not live long enough to compleat this happy Beginning, and soon after his Death, his Mother, who had very creditable Relations in that City, prevailed upon her Brother to take him under his Tuition; he did not remain long with his Uncle (who had a great many Children of his own to provide for) but was placed with a Buckle Maker , whom he was to serve in the Quality of an Apprentice for the Term of seven Years. During the three first Years of his Servitude he behaved with great Care and Diligence in his Master's Family and Business, and few in the Trade understood the Business better, for the Time he was in it; in short, he was the Darling of his Mother, a Satisfaction to his Uncle, and the Pride of his Master. His Friends took Care to supply him with Apparel even superior to his Station, and as he advanced in Years, so the more conceited Opinions of himself he begun to indulge; there were several of his Companions whose Morals were corrupted from their Infancy, who never thought themselves happy, but when they were engaged in Riots and Quarrels, and these were the set of People that first broke in upon the Fences of his good Behaviour, and embroil'd him in the Disputes betwixt the Liberty and Ormond Boys, as they are called in Dublin. In these Frays he bore a superior Sway, and by his Rashness and Intrepidity the Party he espoused generally had the Victory. In one of these Combats he almost massacred an inoffensive Spectator, some of whose Friends standing by, dogg'd him to his Master's House, and whilst he went to muster some Forces to bring him to condign Punishment, he stript, and went into the Shop to finish his Days Work. The Officers of Justice surrounding the Shop, desired he would deliver himself up. But there being a Number of stout Fellows at work in the same Shop, they unanimously sallied out, arm'd with Pokers, Broomsticks and other Weapons, such as were to be pick'd up about the House, and then made so vigorous an Onset upon their Opposers, that they were glad to get off the Ground as fast as ever they could run. Quin dreading the Consequence of this Affair, went to his Uncles, related what happened, and with the general Approbation of all his Friends, it was thought necessary he should that Night go aboard the Packet, and quit the Kingdom. He was well provided with Money, and had Recommendations to some Gentleman in London to provide further for him, and with great Fatigue and Labour he reached London , where, in a short Time after, he went aboard the Mercury Snow , which was afterwards stationed in Legborn ; in six or seven Months he ran away from this Ship, and entered himself on Board a West Indiaman,

but being entirely disatisfied with a Seaman 's Life, he was paid off, and work'd his Passage to London , where falling in with Joseph Dowdle , who was well acquainted with his Courage and Resolution, was prevailed on and inveigled by him, after his Friend Carter's Death, to act in Consort with him. The first Enterprize he went on, in Conjunction with him, was a Street-Robbery near Drury-Lane ; where being overpowered with superior Strength, Dowdel was taken, who called out to Quin if he would not come to his immediate Deliverance, he would be lost, the latter returning in a Minute, dispersed the Croud, put the Party he robb'd to Flight, and rescued his Associate from the Brink of Ruin. Another Day, as they were strolling after Prey, Dowdle perceiving a Silver Tankard in a Window, ordered Quin to take Care and be in Readiness, the former lifted up the Sash and run away with it, whilst the People of the House pursued him with the Hue and Cry, calling out Stop Thief! Some Gentlemen passing by drew their Swords to stop him, whilst Quin, who was still watching the Motions of his Companion, perceived he was hard set, and regardless of Danger, cleared the Way for his Friend's Escape, who went off with the Tankard, and then sought his own.

They committed many Robberies together in all Parts of the Town, before they engaged in the outragious Attempt upon the Gatehouse, in Order to rescue Jones, alias Harpur, a notorious Street-Robber, &c. from his Custody, to which he was committed for robbing General Sinclair of a Gold Watch near Leicester House; for which Offence eight Persons were convicted and imprisoned in Newgate, from the Time of the Sessions in April 1750, to that in April 1751, when they were again set at Liberty, as dangerous a Set of Fellows as ever were upon the Town. During the short Time they had their Liberty, Quin acted in his old Capacity in Company with Dowdel and Talbot, as desperate a Triumvirate as any Body need to meet with. If they robb'd you, and you suffered them to do it tamely, perhaps they would do you no farther Harm; but if you opposed, Fire and Sword was the Word, and they had Hearts corrupted enough to perpetrate any Wickedness. He seemed affected upon Account of his Crimes, and died a Member of the Romish Church .

4. JOSEPH DOWDEL , aged 27, was born at Cappinting , in the County of Wicklow , in the Kingdom of Ireland . His Father was a Bookbinder, and by Reason of Misfortunes, and a large Family, gave this Youth but a slender Education. He was of an untoward Disposition from his Infancy, and though his Father at proper Years put him Apprentice to a Breeches-maker , yet his Inclinations tending rather to Idleness than Industry, he made nothing of it. He had scarce served two Years of his Time when he began to repine at his hard Fate, and concluded with himself to leave that troublesome Business, as he thought it; and imagining the Life of a Footman would better suit his Temper, he studied how to get rid of his present Employ, and at length he found an Opportunity; for his Master having a Parcel of green Leather brought in, gave Orders to Dowdel to take Care to shelter it from the Inclemency of the Weather in Time of Frost and Snow, which is a great Enemy to such Ware. Instead of doing as he was bid, he made use of this as an Opportunity fit for his Purpose, and covered the Leather with such Heaps of Snow and congealed Ice, as rendered it useless. The Master, irritated at this, sent for his Father, gave him his Indentures, and sent him away, reviling him much for his Ingratitude to him, who had all along used him very well, and deserved better at his Hands. After this, he prevailed with his Father to recommend him to a Gentleman of Fortune that lived near him, whom he lived with for some Time, till his Impudence and Presumption became intolerable; and having committed a grievous Fault, for which he expected severe Correction, he made off, and reach'd Dublin , unprovided

of Money or Friends; and meeting with Difficulty to support himself without Labour, which was his Aversion, he began to commence Pick-pocket, until his Acquaintance with a higher Class of Thieves became more extensive; which he has not failed strictly to propagate and keep up, both in Ireland and England. He always acted with more Resolution than any of his Associates, and reign'd a long while without any Danger, till breaking into a House in Dublin , with Intent to rob it, the Servants being alarmed at his Entrance, suffered him to pursue his Design, till coming in, they seiz'd him. He knowing his Life was at Stake, laid on among them with a Scimiter, forc'd his Passage, and got clear off; but on his Return to the Place of Rendezvous, he was discovered by the Watch, being covered with Blood, who took him into Custody. In the Morning he was carried before the Lord Mayor, who finding, upon Examination, that he was some dangerous Person, committed him to Newgate, and ordered Enquiry to be made after the Gentleman whose House he intended to rob. An Advertisement was put in the Papers, which the Gentleman seeing, came before the Lord Mayor, who acquainted him with the Proceedings.

The Servants he escaped from posted away to Newgate, but the Prisoner being quick in Invention, disguised himself between his Entrance to the Jail and their Arrival; upon which he was produc'd, and some imagin'd he was the Man, and others thought the contrary. However, there was a legal Prosecution carried on against him; but it appearing to the Court that the Evidences were not sufficient to convict him, he was acquitted. He was not dismay'd at his late bad Success, nor sensible how powerfully Providence interpos'd in his Favour; but hurried on by a vicious Inclination of committing Vice, he followed his former bad Practices without the least Remorse; and numberless are the repeated Robberies he committed afterwards, and much more surprizing his Escapes. At length, thinking himself secure under the Protection of his ill-applied Courage and Arms, and in order to screen himself from a hot Pursuit, he went to a Farmer's House, that did not live far distant from Finglass , a small Town near Dublin , where he introduced himself as a Citizen in good Business, languishing under a Composition of Disorders, that rendered it absolutely necessary for him to enjoy the Benefit of the Country Air, to restore him to his Health; and that he was ready and willing to make him any suitable Recompence he should think proper to require for his Trouble. The Man believing he was in Earnest, told him, he was satisfied to entertain him, and gave him the best Accommodation his House afforded. He remained here upwards of ten Days, not daring to venture out. Having now staid as long as he thought proper, he told the Farmer one Day, that he was very desirous of going to Finglass , and requested the Favour of his Company; where being come, after they had refreshed themselves, they went to take a View of the Town. Dowdel seeing some Shops fit for Trade, took Occasion to tell his Friend he wanted to purchase some Necessaries. He bought some Trifles in one, and some in another, until he surveyed the greater and richest Part of them. In one he saw the Owner pull a Till from under his Compter, which contained no small Matter of Cash; which he greedily eyed, and came to a Resolution to have it, at the Hazard of his Life. He treated the Farmer with Abundance of Respect, and ply'd him with more Liquor than he could well bear. Then they returned Home, and it being late in the Afternoon, he was seized with a sudden Thought, exclaiming bitterly at his Forgetfulness; saying, that his chief Business in going to Finglass in the Morning, was to buy some Remedies he must indispensibly take that Night. The Farmer ordered his Servant to saddle the Horse, and Dowdel set off, promising to return shortly. He came to Finglass , and posting his Horse, at a convenient Distance, madeup to the Merchant's House, entered the Shop, and carried away the Till unperceiv'd; he immediately mounted, and went to Dublin that Night. The poor Farmer being surprized at his not coming to his House, as he promised, went after him, but could have no Account of him. He pursued him with an Hue and Cry to Dublin, leaving no House of Entertainment without enquiring after him. The first Inn he happened to go into in Thomas-Street , was that wherein he had set his Horse up, and in a few Minutes saw his Chap, with three Horse-Dealers, enter the Stable. He screen'd himself in a House of Office, where he overheard their Discourse. He directly went for a Constable, and waited for a proper Opportunity, rush'd in upon him, and brought him to Justice. He was transported for this Fact the Sessions following, to the general Satisfaction of the Inhabitants of that City.

On the Voyage they met with contrary Winds, and the Vessel springing a Leak on the North-West Coast of England, most of the Crew perished; but alas! Fortune preserved him for a worse Fate. With much Difficulty he reached the Shore near Whitehaven , and by the Humanity of some Fishermen, who administred him seasonable Relief, he in a short Time recruited his decay'd Spirits, and brought him safely to the above Town, where they made a Collection for him, and got him a Passage to Liverpool , where he shortly engaged in a Privateer fitted from thence. They were not long at Sea before they took several rich Prizes, which they carried into Lisbon Harbour . This unfortunate Man's Dividend amounted to upwards of sixty Pounds sterling, which, as soon as he received, he spent in Debauchery and Extravagance. Here he got himself into a bad Scrape, for the Practice of his old Tricks, which he could not forbear, when his Money was gone. He robbed a Gentleman, and was imprisoned, and in Danger of being put to Death; but the English Factory interposing, made Interest to get him off, and he was once more set at Liberty. Upon this he thought best to get out of the Country, and an English Man of War then lying in that Harbour, he had the good Luck, being bred to the Sea for some time, to be taken on board, and put before the Mast, and failing for England, landed at Portsmouth shortly after.

As soon as convenient might be he came up to London , provided himself with decent Apparel, and held on his former Courses of Debauchery and bad Company, until his Money was consumed. He contracted an unequall'd Friendship with one Carter, a famous Villain among his own Profession, with whom he acted a long Time in Company, and who, in Conjunction, rendered it very unsafe for any Gentleman to venture to the Play-house without a Number of Domesticks. Covent-Garden was their Scene of Action, and to describe the many flagrant Acts of Villainy they committed there, would fill a Volume; it must suffice, that in the Month of February, 1748, they left their House of Call in Drum-Alley , Drury-Lane , properly accouter'd, with a definitive Resolution to rob the first good Mark they met with; and under the Piazza's they did not wait long before they found a proper Subject for their Design, a Gentleman, whom Carter stopp'd, and demanded his Money, whilst Dowdel kept the Coast clear. The Gentleman made Answer, he was welcome if he would come and take it. Carter bellowing the most dreadful Imprecations, that he would that Minute blow his Brains out, was stopp'd by the Gentleman's seeming Condescension, who boldly came up to the Russian, and, without any further Hesitation, ran him quite through the Body, whilst Dowdel, almost encompassed, had nothing so earnestly to consult as his own Safety.

Thus, by the Intrepidity and Resolution of this brave Man, the most notorious of Mankind was dispatched, whilst his abandoned Associate was permitted to reign a little longer, still vowing Revenge for the inconsolable Loss of his dear Companion.

I must observe, that he kept Company with one of the Ladies of the Town, who was not long before kept by a Man of Fortune. This young Woman having a Gold Watch, and some other valuable Moveables, was ordered by her new Master to pawn her Watch, to supply some immediate Call he had for Money. The young Woman, being as sharp as he, would not comply, upon which he violently beat and kicked her out of Doors; she went directly to a Justice, and had him committed to Newgate for the Assault, where he remained until the ensuing Sessions, when, for the want of a Prosecution, and no Bill being found, he was upon the Gaol Delivery discharged. A little after he got his Liberty, he made Love to a young Woman that lately came from Gibraltar and Port-Mahon, who was formerly on the Town, and who had saved an hundred Moidores in her Expedition. This Creature he prevailed on to live with him, and when he got all her Money, and forced her to pawn her Clothes, he thought he must do something to render him famous; it happened about the same Time that one Harpur was committed to the Gatehouse, for picking the Pocket of General Sinclair of a Gold Watch; and Dowdel judging it would redound greatly to his Honour to relieve his Friend in Distress, prevailed on a Number of rash young Men to join him in the Enterprize. Accordingly they went to the Gatehouse, and Dowdel first entering with a Pistol in his Hand, demanded the Body of the said Harpur, swearing, unless he was directly delivered into his Hands, that he would destroy both Keeper and Turnkeys. Upon the whole, he was brought out and rescued in Manner aforesaid, and safely conducted to a Place of Security, until his Escape was found practicable. In the mean Time the Keeper of the Gatehouse complained of the Nature of this Outrage to the Government, as also inserted a Paragraph in the News-Papers, offering a large Reward to any of the Persons concerned in this Rescue that would make a Discovery, with a free Pardon. One O'Brian a Bricklayer took the Bait, and gave in the Names of all the People, which obliged Dowdel, with several others, to seek for Shelter in Ireland . They were scarce landed in Dublin , when the Hue-and-Cry pursued them. Some of his Fellow-Travellers fell into the Ambush before it was his Lot. But being prompted on by his evil Spirit to see how his Friends far'd in Newgate, he was by one of the Turnkeys detected in speaking to one of them through an iron Gate, who, under a Shew of Friendship, begged of him to go, in promising he should have Liberty of departing when he thought proper. He, however, would not take his Word, but the other calling for Assistance took him, and was immediately committed, and in some Time after transmitted to London, under a strong Guard. He together with eight more, took their Trials at the Old-Baily , and in April, 1750, received Sentence to remain in Prison for thirteen Kalendar Months. During the Time of his Imprisonment, he behaved with great Insolence, drawing his Knife, upon every trifling Occasion, to stab his poor Fellow-Prisoners. On the 29th Day of April, 1751, he was discharged, and in six Days he, together with his wicked Confort Tom Talbot , robbed no less than six Coaches, and got to his Share two Gold Watches and fifty Guineas, besides Rings, and other Things of Value; and in robbing Mr. Rocke, which was perpetrated on the Saturday Night, he was run quite through the Thigh, for which Fact he was condemned. During Condemnation he behaved with his usual Audacity, and died a Roman Catholick .

5. THOMAS TALBOT , aged 39, was born in Wapping , he was taught to read and write, tho' born of Parents of low Degree; & when he arrived to the Age of 13, he was hired for Servant to a Master of an Inn in Piccadily , that supplied People with Coaches to Bath, Bristol, and other Parts of the Kingdom, in the Quality of a Postilion . He did not remain

very long in that Employ, when he was ordered to attend some Company to Bristol . Upon the Journey he saw a Highwayman near Reading in Berkshire, who robb'd the Gentlemen in the Coach he belonged to, and and march'd off with a very large Booty, which Incident captivated his Mind, and he thought it a pretty Way of getting Money, and grew tired of his own troublesome and laborious Life. As soon as he returned to London , he made it his Business to find out the Haunts of these abandoned Miscreants, and after he had been fully instructed in their various Characters, he thought it more for his Interest, to address the bravest and most generous amongst them, than solicit the Friendship of the Meanest, therefore hearing very much of the Abilities of an Irish Man, who followed such notorious and illicit Practices, he offered himself for his Service, promising to be true and trusty; adding, that he had it greatly in his Power to be serviceable to him, and that if he made him an adequate Recompense for the profitable Intelligences he should give him, that he would be indefatigable in his Interest. This Discourse drew the Highwayman's Attention, and looking upon him to be an excessive smart Boy, he desired him to proceed to the Particulars of his Information, promising if he should succeed in any Shape by his Means, to make him a most grateful return; then Talbot told him with whom he lived, and that he frequently went to Bath and Bristol , and if he could fix upon a convenient Place, he should have a previous Account of the People, and their Circumstances; the Fellow relished his Proposal, entertained him in the most affectionate Manner, and dismissed him with a Guinea. Thus he entered into a Conspiracy with a most egregious Villain, to the great Detriment of the Honest and Just; it was not long before a seasonable Opportunity offer'd to perform his Promise, a Coach and six Horses being hired by four Persons from his Master to go to Bristol, away he posted to his Coleague to impart this News, and ordered him to have every Thing in Readiness against the next Morning, when they were to begin their Journey. Hounslow heath being the Place appointed for Action, where these four Gentlemen were robb'd very early the next Morning of their Watches and Money, which was considerable, and they were obliged to defer their Journey and return home. Talbot in Consequence of his good Offices was presented soon after with a Purse of fifty Guineas by his Confederate, who enjoin'd him to Secrecy, and prompted him on to repeat his Intelligence as often as an Opportunity served; flush'd with Success he was determined to act with great Fidelity to his Friend, and with Circumspection in Regard to his Money, which he kept concealed where it was impossible to find it out. The next Attempt was made soon after upon an Officer of Distinction in the Guards and his Lady, who were robb'd by his Contrivances; they held on this horrid Course of Life three Years without being detected, till a Scotch young Gentleman, being on a Journey to Bath, was attacked by this Highwayman, who stopp'd the Coach, and ordered the young Gentleman to deliver his Money, otherwise he swore he would put him to Death. These Menaces had no great Effect upon the Gentleman, who happened to be a Person of great Intrepidity and Resolution; but he opposed himself to the Robber, overcame him, and took him, and had him brought to his deserved Fate. Talbot pronouncing a thousand dreadfull Imprecations upon the Author of his Friend's Death, and when he returned to Town he left his Master to set up for himself; he resorted to Houses of ill Fame, and kept Company with none but Whores and Thieves. In a short Time he squandered away his ill-got Store, and had Recourse to House-breaking, Thieving, and every other Act of Wickedness his Mind could suggest. In some of these Scenes he so narrowly escaped the Hand of Justice, and being naturally a Coward, that he thought it more adviseable to relinquish his base Practices than run the Hazard of being detected; he

therefore prevailed on his former Master to give him a Character to a noble Personage, whom he lived with in the Quality of a Coachman . He was not very long entered into this Service, when he fell upon a Method of privately conveying several of his Graces Goods out of his House, which he sold to support an extravagant Intrigue he carried on with one of the Maids; however he kept his Place a considerable Time, until his turbulent and outragious Disposition made the Family uneasy, who could not submissively bear his Insolence without being redress'd, and were obliged to make a general Complaint against him; in Consequence whereof he was shamefully discharged; he saved some Money in this Place which he lavished among Whores, and contracted such a Malignity of Intemperance and Vice, that he was really dangerous to civil Society; he carried on an Amour with an abominable Strumpet of the Town, called Nosegay Nan, the Wife of a noted Thief Catcher, who was then at Sea. This abandoned Prostitute subverted all Hopes of Amendment in him, and it was by her wicked Allurements that he was tempted the second Time to turn Thief and House breaker. In short, innumerable were the Robberies this terrible Fellow perpetrated, and was so hardened in Cruelty, Villainy and Vice, that he would have nothing unattempted to satisfy his Passions. He had been tried for a Robbery and Murder some Years ago, but acquitted, together with a Woman of ill Fame; and though he had often evaded being brought to condign Punishment for all his enormous Facts, yet he ungratefully judg'd these Motives too inconsiderable to stop him in his Career, but went on as soon as he was discharged upon his former bad Practices. The Night he got his Liberty, he robb'd a Coach in Drury-lane , and went off with a large Booty of Money, and a Gold Watch, which did not last him very long, but he was again by his Necessity and the Entreaties of his Doxy influenced to go upon his nightly Expeditions, and coming by a Publick House in Westminster , he observed a glimmering Light in one of the upper Apartments, and knowing the Proprietor was a Person in very able Circumstances, he without much Difficulty forced his Admittance therein, and being well supplied with necessary Implements he wrenched open the Lock of a corner Cupboard, where he found some Plate and Money, and rumaging the lower Apartments so effectually, that he carried off every Thing of Value, leaving the honest Man, who was all this Time fast asleep, to mourn the Loss of his Money and Goods. However, Talbot in some Time after was detected and brought to Justice, he received Sentence of Transportation, but did not long remain in the Station of a Slave in Virginia , but in a short Time he got to Boston in New-England , and entered himself on Board a Privateer then going upon a Cruize; in which he behaved with his usual Insolence and Presumption, and had the Impudence to fall upon a Scheme to inflame the Crew to mutiny, but was luckily detected, his Intent being calculated to destroy the Officers and turn Pirate; he was severely punished for this Fact, and as soon as she had finished her Cruize he left her. Being a pretty good Sailor he agreed with a Master of a Merchant man, for thirteen Guineas to work the Vessel home to London , he arrived in the River Thames in August, 1748, received his Hire and bought himself a Case of Pistols, a Hanger, and a long Knife, disguising himself as much as possible, he met with a trusty Companion in Drury-Lane whom he acted in Company with, and by whose Assistance he entered the Lists of Thieving and Robbing once more. He grew so famous about the Court-end of the Town, and the City of Westminster, that scarce a Coach, or a well dress'd Gentleman, could pass by at an unseasonable Hour, without being plundered.

Talbot had himself committed a Robbery, and was prevailed upon by his Doxy, commonly called Nosegay Nan, to make an Information, that her Husband, in Conjunction with two more, were the Perpetrators thereof,and laying down the Circumstances of the Fact in so pathetick a Manner, that her innocent Husband was taken into Custody and committed to Newgate , together with the rest, in Consequence of her Discovery. The ensuing Sessions they were tried at the Old Bailey , and were in Danger of being found Guilty, had it not been for her very bad Character, and the excellent good one of one of the three then tried, which induced the Court and Jury to believe, that that Prosecution was maliciously levell'd at their respective Lives by the said Nan, and were accordingly acquitted. However, Talbot's Malice did not end here, for at all Hazards he was determined to dispatch her former Husband, and constantly waited for a seasonable Opportunity to execute his horrid Design; at last he met him one Day under the Arch-way leading from the Abbey to Tothill street , and pulling a Pistol out of his Pocket would have perpetrated his intended Plot, had not his Rival knock'd him down whilst he was going to fire at him, repeating his Blows until he rendered the abominable Villain incapable of making any further Resistance. They were by this Time surrounded by a numerous Mob, when the Husband of Nan dispatch'd a Butcher of his Acquaintance in Search of a Constable, whom he gave him in Charge to for that Night, and until he procured a Number of Thief catchers the next Morning to escort him to a Justice, who committed him to Newgate on his Adversaries Evidence for returning from Transportation, in Consequence whereof he received Sentence of Death; but there being great Interest made to save his Life, with much Difficulty got him a second Time transported; however, when he was moved from the Cells to the Common-side, he made it a Practice to strip his Fellow-prisoners, and rob every other Person that came to see his Friend there; he could not be easy Day or Night without giving Offence to one or other, and if any of his Fellow-sufferers offer'd to make a Complaint, so surely they went in Danger of their Lives. There came a well-dress'd Woman to the Felon's Grate, to enquire for her Friend, and as she was engaged in asking the Man some Questions, this Reprobate cut her Pocket off, wherein he found five Guineas and some Silver, which was all the Money the poor Woman had in the World.

And it is remarkable, that he stole such Quantities of all Necessaries in the Prison, that he went better provided than any of the rest, defraying the Expences of his Passage, and having thirty Guineas in his Pocket to purchase his Freedom as soon as he landed, tho' he had not one Friend, during his long Confinement, to assist him with one Farthing. He did not remain very long in Virginia , when he returned to London , in Company with the notorious Pegg Bulger , who was also transported with him, and who is now in Custody. This famous Woman attended him of late Years in all his Expeditions, and was generally as active and formidable as he was. They were not in Town above a Fortnight, when Dowdel and Quin obtained their Liberties; and as Nature never framed more terrible People, they enter'd into a reciprocal Agreement of robbing every Person they met with, in Consort. The short Time they were concern'd together (which was not above six Days) they committed several heinous Robberies, and acquired very near three Hundred Pounds, besides Rings, Watches, and wearing Apparel. When Dowdel was committed, to save his Life he endeavoured to turn Evidence, and impeach'd this Talbot, who was taken a few Days after, and committed to Newgate for robbing Mr. Rocke, which he suffered for. The Person that took him came to the great Iron Gate to see him the very Day he was committed; and making some Excuse for his late Treachery and Breach of Friendship to his old Fellow-Prisoner and former Companion; when Talbot seemingly forgave him, and shaking Hands frequently with him, told him he had something of the greatest Consequence to import to him, desiring he might come

nearer to the Gate. Mullins never mistrusting that Talbot would offer any Violence to him, gratified his Request; when the other, watching his Opportunity, stabbed him under the right Breast, which had near depriv'd him of Life. No one Person ever came to this fatal End that more justly merited Death; for he certainly has been a most wicked and most abandoned Wretch as ever lived.

6. ROBERT DAMSEL , aged 39, was born near Dursely in the County of Gloucester , and bred a Shoemaker in that Neighbourhood, as he was pleased to say. He served his Time out, might have been in Business for himself, and would not have wanted Encouragement, had he but been a Friend to himself. He was tolerably well bred, and had an Education equal to his Station in Life, and was taught better Things, if he had not wanted the Grace to follow the Instructions he had in his early Days. He might have been a good Member of Society; but alas! his Will got the better of his Sense, and his Passions of his Reason; and, instead of being led to Virtue by Advice of his Friends, and the Admonitions of his Parents, he took the direct contrary Road, and followed Vice through all its dirty and troublesome Ways to his Undoing. He might, if he had been industrious, have lived very well in the World, and the Almighty had given him Strength to go through with a much more laborious Business than what he was at first destin'd to.

He soon grew weary of Business when he was out of his Time, and led an idle Life up and down the Country for some Time; till at length, being put to his Trumps for Livelihood, he enlisted for a Soldier , and was in the Guards for several Years. Afterwards he kept an Alehouse near the Savoy , and his Wife attended a Sort of an Hospital there, by which he got Money. But Damsel having been always an idle and extravagant Fellow, all their Earnings would not do, but still more was wanting; and in order to supply his Extravagancies, he used to go now and then upon the Road, and being a bold daring Fellow, had Success for some Time, and had been concerned in several Robberies upon the Western Road , which afforded great Booty. The Robbery for which he was condemned he confessed to be guilty of, but often said, he thought it hard that he was not admitted an Evidence, as he was the first taken; but well it was that so dangerous a Person was not suffered to escape; he had been bad enough already, and if Opportunity had been granted, he had a Will to be much worse; but God thought fit to suffer him to be cut off, that he might not run into blacker and more Scenes of Villainy, having already sufficiently offended, and broken through all the Fences and Rules of Law divine and human. He owned he deserved to die, but was unwilling to give up Hopes of Life, even to the last Day. He had the most surly morose Behaviour I almost ever met with, and when he was put in Mind of the Heinousness of those Offences he had been guilty of, he replied, he knew best what he had done, and should endeavour to make his Peace with God, as well as he was able, and should continue to do so as long as he lived. How much in Earnest he was in this Case, he is the best Judge who knoweth the Secrets of all Hearts; but, whether it was owing to a particular Steadiness in his Countenance, or to his Consciousness of having used his utmost Endeavours, we don't pretend to determine, but not the least Alteration appeared in his way of Speech, or in his Countenance, even to the last Moment of his Life.

7. JOSEPH PEACOCK , aged 24, was born in the Parish of St. James's , Westminster , of Parents in a pretty good Way of Life, who would have given him some Education, but it was not agreeable to his Temper; and for one Day he vouchsafed to go to School, he played Truant five Days, so that their Money was laid out to no Purpose; and so, he says, it was not their Neglect of his early Days, but his own unhappy Disposition, that led him on in Idleness and Ignorance

and in the Pursuit of every evil Thing. His Parents finding there was no Hopes of his doing well in London , resolved to send him to Sea, which they did, when he was about 11 Years old, and he served as a Cabbin-boy for two or three Years, and then went away from his Master, and went in the Service a common Sailor before the Mast. He was a handy Youth, and very useful. But he had not been long Aboard before he was guilty of pilfering some little old Things from his Ship-Mates, and for Fear of a Whipping-bout, which he was threatened with, he took an Opportunity, when the Ship put into Lisbon , to run away from her, and getting on Board a Packet, then just about to fail, he came away in her, and arrived safe in England .

He had got a little Money, which was soon spent, and no Way to get more, his Parents not suffering him to come nigh them, and he says, he was as unwilling to go, for Fear of their Reproaches. He staid about a Month in London , and having got into bad Company, was drawn into a Scrape, for Fear of which he thought proper to get off the Ground, and again betook himself to a Man of War then lying at Gravesend . In this Ship he continued Abroad for three Years, and then returned Home again: When, after some Time spent in riotous and bad Company, and among lewd Women, his Finances were exhausted, and he a third Time had Recourse to the Sea. He staid Abroad for three or four Years upon this Trip, and returned not to England till the End of the War, and was discharged from his Ship at Chatham , about six Months ago; and he accounts for passing away his Time since, in rigging of Ships on the River Thames.

He was always dumb when any other Robbery was mentioned, or denied having been concerned in any other; and as to that for which he was convicted, he owned that he was one of the three; but said, that he was so drunk, that when he became sober again, and reflected on the Actions of the Day past, he recollected the having done somewhat that was bad; but what particularly he knew not, till his Memory was refreshed by the Person whom he robb'd the Night before; for the next Morning Peacock came into the House where the Person was; who, as soon as he saw him, knew him to be one of the three, and took hold of him; but upon his Watch being brought to him by a Woman, to whom he gave a Gratuity, he let him go about his Business. Peacock was afterwards re-taken, and the Prosecutor being sent for to Mr. Justice Fielding's, while the Prisoner was there, he knew him to be the Man, and the Justice committed him. He had nothing to say in his Defence upon his Trial, and was convicted.

While under Sentence of Death he behav'd in a very surly Manner, and was scarce to be perswaded to think how his Sins had laid fast hold upon him, and how necessary it was to consider of the past Evil of his Ways; for to the last, scarce any Signs of Remorse or Fear appeared in him unless what might arise from the Nearness of his approaching Fate.

8. WILLIAM HATTON , aged 17, was born in the Parish of St. Olave , in Southwark ; had no Manner of Education, nor was bred to any Business. He was a Youth of an untoward and surly Disposition: His Mind was susceptible of no good Impression, and seemed by Nature inclined to every evil Way. While a Child, he was notoriously unlucky, and scarce any Mischief was done in the Neighbourhood, where he was born, that he had not a Hand in, if not the Ringleader. His Parents could have no Influence on him, by their Authority or Advice; if they chid him for doing a bad Thing, he was sulky, and regarded not what they said. He could not perhaps sometimes help giving them the Hearing, but he was no sooner out of their Sight, than he was at his usual Tricks, and would pilfer and steal, tho' it were but an Apple or a Nut. He had a mighty Hand in robbing the Gardens on the other Side the Water, and made many a Penny of what little Plunder

they would at Times afford him. Having nothing that might be of Service to him to employ his Mind about, either for the present, or for the Time to come, his Thoughts were entirely taken up in seeking idle, if not wicked Ways of passing away his Time; and he was so much the more liable to take the Infection of a bad Example, whatever Body it proceeded from.

After a while he grew tired of Home, and of his Father and Mother, he says, who did what they could to keep him within Bounds; but the more they strove, the more irksome it was to him, and he resolved to take himself away from them. For some Time after he worked at a Tobacconist's in the Neighbourhood, and got a pretty Livelihood; but Work, tho' never so easy, would not agree with his Constitution; the Seeds of Idleness were so rooted in him, that no Business could long entertain him. About five Years ago, this unhappy Youth says, he entered into a Gang of young Pickpockets about the Burrough and St. George's Fields , and has ever since continued to follow that, and other wicked Practices. His Father, he says, wou'd now and then meet with him, and take him Home sometime for 3 or 4 Days, with Intreaties and fair Speeches. But, 'twas all to no Purpose; for when his Father was gone to his Work, who was a Smith, and a laborious Man, the Youth would soon make his Escape, return to his Comrades, and not be seen by his Parents for many Months. Upon this being asked, whether he ever thought of the Consequence of following such Ways, as were against the Laws of God and Man; he said, he did not think much about it, for that he was always drunk, and in Company of lewd Women; so that his Time was amused another Way: That when he did think of it, he was persuaded in his Mind he should be hanged one Day or other, but little Thought 'twould be so soon. Black-Boy Alley and Chick-Lane were his Places of Resort and Retirement, when he had done all the Mischief he could.

He was so free as to own; that he believed he had been concerned in at least 500 Robberies, and Burglaries, &c. He was concerned for a long Time with William Tidd and Anthony Bourne , executed in December last, two notorious Thieves; and with Anthony Whittle , sometime before executed, equally as notorious. When these were cut off, he was recommended to the late Field the Boxer, executed sometime since; and had been present at the perpetrating several base Villanies with them and many others. The chief Use they made of him in Robberies was to keep a Lookout; and in Burglaries, when they had broke a House, to list him in, to fetch out what Goods were to be had. He appeared to be as hardened a Youth as ever was at his tender Years concerned in these wicked Practices. The Robbery for which he was convicted was proved clearly upon him, and he did not deny it; and there was another Indictment against him for a Burglary, upon which he was not tried, which he owned he was concerned in. When upon Trial, he was asked what he had to say for himself; his Answer was, in a surly Mood, I have nothing to say. A Day or two before Execution, he seemed somewhat affected; tho' his tender Years, and Want of Reflection, would scarce admit of such a Sense of his Offences, as was necessary for a Person in his unhappy Situation.

But the nearer his End approached, the more he seemed affected.

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

ON Monday the 17th Instant, about half an Hour after Nine in the Morning, Dowdel , Peacock , and Ward in the first Cart. Talbot , Hatton , and Quinn in the second, and Gibbs and Damsel in the third Cart, went to the Place of Execution. Dowdel, Ward, Talbot and Quinn, being Roman Catholicks , turned their Backs, and prayed by themselves, while I continued in Prayer about a Quarter of an Hour, recommending their Souls to the Almighty's Protection. Not one of them spoke any thing to the Populace worth remarking, but quietly resigned their Breath to the Satisfaction of the Law.

This is all the Account given by me, John Taylor , Ordinary of Newgate .

