THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were executed at Tyburn, on Monday the 1st, of this Instant June, 1730.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir Richard Brocas , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Page; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Raby; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery for the City of London, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 13th, 14th, and 15th of May, 1730, in the third Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Two Men, viz. John Doyle and John Young , and one Woman, viz. Anne Bambrey , were by the Jury convicted of capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

In order to prepare for Death, they were exhorted to consider Seriously what a great Change they were to undergo, that they were to pass from Time to Eternity; from a known to an unknown State, to a State of eternal Happiness, or never ending Misery; and therefore it nearly concern'd them, and it was their greatest Interest, to secure to themselves a Portion in that everlasting Kingdom, which is prepared as an Inheritance to the Saints in Light, and to chuse that better Part which could never be taken from them, since upon the Improvement or Mis-improvement of their few remaining Moments, no less depended than their eternal Happiness, or everlasting Misery in another World. They having given themselves to a lewd and dissolute Manner of Life, and consequently not having much Knowledge in Religion, whether as to Speculation or Practice, I instructed them in religious Principles, necessary to be known by us, both as Men and Christians. I insisted upon the Evil of Theft and Robbery, shewing them how contrary to reasonable Beings, how Destructive of all Order and Society, and of what pernicious Consequences it was to those, who, because of their vicious Inclinations, were so far abandon'd of God, as to betake themselves to such villainous Courses, entailing Misery and Infamy upon themselves, bringing Disgrace to their Families and Relations, and a shameful and ignominious Death on them in this World, and, which is infinitely worse, provoking God to pour forth his Vengeance and fiery Indignation, which shall devour the Adversary upon their Souls and Bodies in the Life to come, if Repentance and a sincere Resolution of new Obedience and Holiness in all manner of Life and Conversation, by the Grace of God, prevent it not.

John Young , having not only robb'd, but unmercifully beaten and left Mr. Stinton for dead to perish in a Ditch, into which he had thrown him, I took Occasion to shew them, that Theft and Robbery was commonly attended with innumerable other, the worst of Sins; such as a tendency to, and frequently an actual Commission of the Sin of Murder, and a continual Practice of lying, drinking, whoring, with many other infamous Vices: Whence it appears, that they who addict themselves to such wicked Lives, are most vile abandon'd Wretches, and averse to every thing which is good. I insisted upon the great Evil, the Barbarity, the Cruelty, the Inhumanity of Murder; and particularly in the Case of attacking People upon the Highway, whom they had never seen, at whom they could not entertain any Grudge, as altogether unknown to them, and whom they set upon without any the least Provocation; and yet Young's Case was still more aggravating, who decoy'd an innocent Person, his Friend and particular Acquaintance, who trusted and put Confidence in him, who had been in his Company for two or three Days before, and who led him out of his Road into a private Place, where he took the Advantage of him, knock'd him down unawares in a barbarous manner, shot him and push'd him into a Ditch, where he must needs have perish'd, if the Providence and Goodness of God had not favour'd him. I instructed them in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, both of Baptism and the Lord's Supper, how they are Seals of the Gospel Covenant, and Pledges of all those Blessings procured to us by the Sufferings and Death of our Lord Jesus.

When these and many like Exhortations were us'd, they all attended punctually in Chapel, and Young and Doyle made regular Responses, and the Woman was very attentive, but could not read. Doyle did not seem so deeply affected as the other two, yet, as I preach'd upon Faith, Repentance and Death, and some such serious Subjects, all the three shed plenty of Tears, and appear'd mightily affected with their miserable Circumstances. They behav'd much more civily and modestly, than most of those notorious Robbers and Highway men use to do. Doyle having been under some faint Hopes of a Reprieve, because he alledg'd, that there was something Singular in his Case; yet when all Hopes vanish'd, he took things so much to Heart, that his Body was on a sudden seiz'd all over with Pains; but of this he soon recover'd, and the Reason why he was so much troubl'd, might have been, because he saw one of his nearest Friends neglect his Business, and refuse to take any proper Methods for procuring any Favour to him; but this he never spoke of, and did not in the least resent.

Upon Thursday the 28th of May, the Report of the three Malefactors under Sentence of Death in Newgate, was made to his Majesty in Council, when Anne Bambrey , of St. Sepulchre's , for privately stealing two gold Rings, value 12 s. a silk Handkerchief, value 1 s. and a Waistcoat, from the Person of Roger Smith , the 30th of April last, receiv'd his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve. The other two, viz. John Doyle and John Young , were order'd for Execution.

John Doyle , was Born in the Town of Carrlough in the Kingdom of Ireland and of very honest Parents who

gave him the best Education that the Country could afford, as writing and Accompts, &c. and made a prety good Progress in Latin, and having been approv'd of by his Friends to be quallified for a Trade, they consented to it; and they not thinking a Country place (good enough) to procure him a Master they agreed unanimously to send him to Dublin which they accordingly did, and there Bound him to a Tallow Chandler and Soap-Boiler in St. Thomas's Street where he remain'd and serv'd 7 Years faithfully, and had a very good Character from his Master. He then being his own Master, was prevail'd on by his old Master, to work Journey-work with him, and accordingly he did for Nine Months, and he then begun to get acquainted with some of the Lady's of the Town, and he parted with his Master; work not agreeing with him any longer. So his Friends having remitted him 50 l. to Dublin to put him in a way of getting his Bread; he received that Money and lived on it while it lasted. Then he was at a great Loss, what to Turn himself two: He begun to hate Working, and he made a Resolution to come to England , and accordingly he came from Ringsend on Board the Packet Boat on Sunday the 19th of April 1715, and having arrived at Parr-gate he had about 3 l. 10 s. in Money and was at a loss what to Turn himself too, he at last came to a Resolution to take to Rob on the Highway, and accordingly to compleat him, bought him a pair of Pistols in West-Chester , which cost me 40 s. and he remained there till the Chester Coach, was to go out for London, and at some distance from the Town, he stop'd the Coach and robb'd the Passengers to the Value of 10 l. and was not any ways suspected to be a Person that went on the Highway.

Then he began to think upon steering his course some other way, and resolv'd to take a trip to London , as a proper scence for action, and where possibly he might meet with the largest rendezvous of Gentlemen of his own Profession, both from his own Country and other Places of the World, and where in all probability most was to be purchas'd. Here he made considerable improvements in his Art, and continu'd for several Years one of the chief practitioners about Town, sparing no Body worth his while to attack, whom he met on the High-way, and by this Means, as was said, he made large Sums of Money, and was Richer than most of his Profession, resolving if he died in the cause not to be hang'd for nothing. He married a Wife, and had some Children, and kept House in Town for several Years, without any visible Prospect of Business to Provide for his Family, but what he could get upon his Travels into the Country, or any small thing his Wife could make in Town. Some Years ago his Wife was convicted of a Felony, in robbing some Person as she was walking the Streets at Night, and for this she was Transported to Carolina, where and at Boston in New-England she liv'd a long Time, and was well provided in every thing by Mr. Doyle, who was so much concern'd for want of a good House-keeper, and such a Kind and Loving Husband, that impatient of Delay, he could not wait for her Return, but went to America , was at the Charge of relieving and bringing her back again to London ; but it may be suspected, that as this fondness was not well requited, so it was no small cause of his ruin and untimely end. For Mr. Doyle went out to rob on the High-way five or six Times, in Campany as he said with one Benjamin Wileman , who upon his Evidence was convicted and executed in August last, for robbing Mr. Huck's between London and Hampstead . This Wileman fell out with Mrs. Doyle, and as he said she often abused and gave him ill Names; upon which he several Times threaten'd to take her up, and get her Hang'd for returning from Transportation; She prevented him, and caus'd her Husband to make a Voluntary Confession, in order to convict Wileman, which he did accordingly, and since that Time she was convicted in March last, and received a Free Pardon for returning from Transportation: Wileman went to Death denying the Crime sworn against him, and yet Doyle affirm'd upon the Word of a Dying Man that all was true. Mr. Doyle own'd that he had been a very wicked Man, and very negligent in his Duty to God and Man; that he had been idle, and unwilling to apply himself, to close Business. He said, although he was Young, yet he had been in most parts of the known World, being oblig'd, when in danger of being discover'd or taken up, to go a Voyage, sometimes to one Place, and sometimes to another; so that he was oftener than once in America , the Streights, &c. but he always found the way back to London , where he thought there was best living. He seem'd to be Civil and Courteous, and good natur'd, no way Rude and Barbarous in his Disposition, as many of those notorious Robbers are. He profess'd himself of this Church, untill the Report was made, and then when all hopes of Life were over, he declar'd himself a Roman Catholick , and would come no more to Chapel. He said the Family he came from was always Popish, and bred him that Way, till he was bound Apprentice, and if any Profession of Religion he had, which may be presum'd was but small, was of the Church of England. Whatever Robberies he committed, he never murder'd, knock'd down nor wounded any Body; that he robb'd in a civil way and did not frighten People, and if they wanted, he freely gave them Money to carry them to their Journeys end. All which irregular doings he beg'd Pardon of God and Man. When he came to Chapel, he appear'd always with abundance of Civility and good Manners and apparent Devotion. He declar'd his Faith in Christ; a sincere Repentance for all his Sins; and that he died in Peace with all the World. He complain'd upon the manner of his conviction, it having been upon a Robbery he committed with Wileman whom he convicted. As to his Robbing with G - he said he never did any such thing, and if they had any such design, it was never put in Execution and did not appear. And that he knew no more of him, but that he being one of his own way, he was content to be acquainted with him, whom he durst not rashly apprehend because of his great Strength. But this seems to be but an Excuse. I comforted him against the fears of Death, and exhorted him to Patience and Submission to the Will of God, he said, he was content with his Lot, &c.

John Young , of the Parish of Hayes , in the County of Middlesex , was indicted for assaulting Thomas Stinton , in a Field, or open Place, near the Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him a brown Mare, value 7 l. a Bridle, value 1 s. 6 d. a saddle, value 12 s. three Broad Pieces of Gold, and 9 s. in Money, the 15th of February last.

Thomas Stinton depos'd, that meeting with the Prisoner about 7 Miles on this side of Bristol , and being glad of each other's Company they continu'd and lodg'd together till they came to Oxford , where the Prisoner saying he was short of Money, he lent him a Crown, and that at Loud-water where they lodg'd the next Night, he lent him Half a Crown. The next Morning they sat out for London , and being a little on this side of Uxbridge , he said he had a Friend

in Hounslow to advance him Money, and pretending to take Mr. Stinton, a better and nearer way, he led him to a River Side, over Hedges and Ditches, knock'd him off his Horse by a Blow upon the Head, which made the Blood gush out at his Mouth and Nose. When he recover'd his Senses, he demanded his Money, Mr. Stinton said, Is this the way you treat your Friend? I have not Strength to give you any thing. He took his Money and his Pocket Book. Mr. Stinton desir'd him to give him some Money to carry him home. He said, he would give him that should carry him home presently; then he shot him in the Neck with a Pistol, and push'd him into a Ditch bidding him lie there. Mr. Stinton with much ado, crawl'd out of the Ditch, and got to a House, and saw no more of the Prisoner nor the two Mares. He also mention'd a Case of Launcets which te Prisoner shew'd him; the Truth of which he did not deny. George Hartwel depos'd, that he took the Prosecutor and the Prisoner to an Inn in Oxford , where they lodg'd all Night. Sarah Howard depos'd, that they lodg'd at Loud-water , in her House, in the same Room, and lay in different Beds, the Night before the Robbery. The Prosecutor and all the Evidences agreed, that the Prisoner was the same Person. The Fact was so plainly prov'd, that the Prisoner did not deny it, only in Extenuation he said, that he knew not what became of the Mare, that he took the Money, but that his Hand shaking the Pistol went off accidentally without any Design. He deny'd that he us'd the Words sworn by the Prosecutor, I will give you something that shall carry you home presently. He added, though he knew he was a dying Man, it was a great Satisfaction to him, that he neither had committed, nor design'd to commit Murder; and that he submitted to satisfy the Law with more Pleasure. The Jury found him Guilty of the Indictment. Death.

John Young , about 33 Years of Age, of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, in reading, writing, and cyphering, to fit him for Business, and instructed him in religious Principles, and who, both by Example and Precept, press'd the Practice of religious Duties upon him, from which he fell in a deplorable Manner. When of Age he was put to no particular Trade, but follow'd his Father's Business of a Gardiner , and could let Blood , and understood a little of Surgery; but this he made nothing of. He kept an Alehouse at the other End of the Town, and liv'd there for a long Time in very good Credit, and in the Reputation of an honest Man, and belov'd and respected in the Neighbourhood, for his civil and obliging Temper. He said that he marry'd a Wife three or four Years ago, with whom he liv'd for some Time, and then failing in the World, they parted from one another, and the Wife went to a Lady, and said she was Ship-wreck'd coming from Ireland, whereupon the Lady took her out of Charity to be a Servant, believing her, as she gave out, to be a single Woman. Upon a Sunday, Young went to visit his Wife, who convey'd him up Stairs secretly, where he found Means to open a Closet, and to steal 90 Guineas, and ten Pound in Money, a Sattin Petticoat, value 30 s. and a Norwich Crape Petticoat were also carried off; this was done upon the 5th of May, 1727. The Wife having got Leave from her Lady, to go to Church that Afternoon, went off and never return'd; neither was any Thing heard of her till of late, after Young was taken up for the Robbery for which he died, one who knew her took her up, for this Robbery which he knew her to have committed, and carried her before a Justice of the Peace, to whom she confess'd the Robbery as above narrated; and she told also, that immediately after, Young, by her Assistance had carried off all those Goods, she went to him, who told her that he had open'd the Closet Door, and got a great deal of Gold, &c. and that it was Time for them to go off. Accordingly they went to Bristol , where they staid several Months till they began to find the Bottom of their Pockets. For this the Wife was try'd at the Old Bailey the same Day he was try'd, and not being Capable at that Time to prove her Marriage with John Young , she was found Guilty of the Indictment, and order'd for Transportion. By this we see the mischievous Consequences of marrying, and keeping Company, and following the Advice of infamous Women. I ask'd Young, if this Account was True? I suppose he would not tell a Lye, which was the Reason he did not deny it, but he would not tell any Particulars.

The Robbery of which he was convicted he did not deny, only he said, that the Prosecutor did not give a just Account of every thing, and that he neither intended nor committed Murther. I told him, that if a Person be Kill'd, when a violent assault is made upon him on the Highway, no Law or Reason in the World can interpret it any thing else but Murder, and therefore he ought to take shame and confusion of Face to himself, since it was owing to nothing but the good Providence of God, that the honest Man did not dye on the Spot, of the barbarous and cruel Treatment and Wounds which he gave him. He said that he had not been extraordinary wicked or vicious in the preceeding part of his Life, excepting the Robbery for which he died, and the other wherein he was concern'd with his Wife. He confess'd, that since that Time he had liv'd very loosely and void of the fear of God, and that he had form'd a resolution to go upon the Highway, as not knowing any other way how to get Money, and being out of all Credit. I ask'd him, if he wanted Money when he committed the Robbery? he said he did and knew not how to get any. But he would not tell whether he could make any thing by following some Business or Employment. Upon the Friday before he died, the Constable who apprehended him on the other Side of the Water, came officiously to visit him in the Chapel, he wept at the Sight of him, took him by the Hand, and heartily forgave him; and when they went down Stairs, in Token of Friendship drank with him. He spoke of nothing but Death and Eternity to all who visited him. He employ'd his Time in the Cell in continual Prayer, Meditation, and reading of godly Books.

He acknowledg'd that his Sentence was most just, and that God had in Justice afflicted him for Sinning against so must Light and Knowledge, and that it was good for him that he was afflicted, since thereby he was brought to a Sense of his Sin, and the Commission of much Sin was prevented. He express'd a longing desire to be with Christ and in token thereof had an ardent desire to receive the Lords Supper; and declared that he most willingly parted with this World. He appeared to be in raptures of Devotion, with Floods of Tears in his Eyes. In all appearance, and according to the nicest judgment could be form'd of him, he died a true Penitent. I never saw one in his Circumstances so much affected with Religious Thoughts, and the apprehension of a future State. He declar'd that he believ'd to be saved only through the Merits of Christ Jesus; that he sincerely repented of all his Sins; and that he

died in Peace with all Men; and in the Communion of this Church.

N. B. JOHN DOYLE , the before mention'd Malefactor, having deliver'd, to the Printer of this Paper, the Day before his Execution, a Narrative of his Life and Actions, desiring it might be made Publick to the World in a Pamphlet; but not being willing to put our Readers to such a Price, we have determin'd to publish it in Applebee's Journal of Saturday next, there being several material and uncommon Passages, in his past Life, worthy Observation; and likewise of Young's who was Executed with him.

At the Place of EXECUTION,

MR. Young behav'd very Devoutly, and said he had nothing to add to his former Confessions, only that his Sentence was most just, for ingratitude and barbarously Treating his Friend, and that therefore the Judgment of God had most justly overtaken him. He express'd a deep Sense of the Mercy of God, although his Sins had been very great. Mr. Doyle was carried to the Place of Execution in a Mourning Coach. He had a Book in his Hand upon which he constantly read, in a serious and devout Manner to Appearance, while I was praying. He was begotted in the way of the Church of Rome , although he dissembl'd till Friday last in the Afternoon, when all Hopes of Life were gone, But I believe this was owing to the underhand Practices of Some. He cried out to the People, that he had no more to say, only that his Wife was Lawfully married to him, and what ever bad opinions the World might entertain of her, yet she had been a good Wife to him, that he had no ill Thought of her, but believ'd that she was verily his well-wisher, and that she had done what she could for his Welfare and Safety. Both of them under all their Misfortunes carried themselves Soberly, Civilly and Christianly, and in a much more decent and becoming Manner, then others are us'd to do under the like Misfortunes. I ask'd Mr. Young after Prayers in Chapel in the Morning what had become, or if he knew any thing of Mr. Stinton's Pocket Book? He said, that he had burnt it for fear of a Discovery, that he knew nothing what was in it, and that he could not help it now, for he repented that he did it. He call'd out just as the Cart was a going off. Lord have Mercy on me, Christ have Mercy on me.

This all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE , Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Lately Publish'd,

The Dying Speeches and Behaviour of all the State Prisoners that have been Executed the last 300 Years; with their several Characters from the best Historians, as Cambden, Spotswood, Clarendon, Sprat, Burnet, &c. And a Table shewing how the respective Sentences were Executed, and which of them were Mitigated, or Pardoned. By Mr. Salmon. Printed for John Hook , at the Flower de Luce , over-against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet street , in 8 vo. Price 5 s.

Where is also Printed and Sold,

The Lives of John Picus , Prince of Mirandola , and of the celebrated Monsieur Pascal; by Mr. Josup. The Life of Pius is collected from the Writings of Sir Thomas Moor , Knt . The Life of Monsieur Pascal is written by Madam Perier his Sister, of which the learned Bayle, in his News from the Republick of Letters, for the Month of December, 1684, Page 531. among many other extraordinary Commendations, hath this very memorable Saying, An hundred Volumes of Sermons are not worth so much as this single Life, and are far less capa of disarming Men of Impiety. In 8 vo. Price 3 s.

Electuarium Mirabile: Or, the Admirable Electuary which infallibly cures all Degrees and Smptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed and Safety, than any Medicine yet publish'd; any old Running, &c. though of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an over strain, Weakness of the Seminals, other Relicts of a former Infection is certainly cur'd in a short Time, without a Minute's Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasan and easy in its Operation that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution, may take It with Delight: Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases To be had of the Author Dr. Cam, Graduate Physician, who has publish'd it 30 Years, and is constantly to be advis'd with at his House at the Golden Ball and Lamp, in Bo Church-Yard in Cheap-side, at 10 . 6 d. the Pot.

N. B. Beware of buying Medicines from unknown Authors. It is to be had also at R. Nichols's at Worcester, B. Rome and S. Farley in Bristol, and T. Goodal in Cambridge.

London : Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Black-Fryers .

