THE Ordinary of Newgate's ACCOUNT OF THE Life, Conversation, Birth and Education, OF Thomas Ellis , and Mary Goddard .

Who were Executed at Tyburn , on Wednesday, the Third of March, 1707/1708.

WITH

The most Remarkable Passages of their whole Lives and Wicked Actions, from the time of their Birth, to their untimely Death; as also their Tryal, Examination, Conviction and Condemnation, at the Old-Bayly, their Behaviour in Newgate, their Confession, and True Dying-Speeches, at the Place of Execution.

Licensed according to Order.

LONDON:

Printed by H. Hills, in Black-fryars, near the Waterside. 1708.

The Life and Conversation, Birth and Education of Thomas Ellis , and Mary Goddard , &c.

AT the Sessions of Oyer and Terminer and Goal delivery of Newgate, held for the City of London, and County of Middlesex, at the Old-Bayly, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 26th and 27th of February last, Sentence of Death pass'd upon Thomas Ellis , Ann Simmons , Deborah Churchill , and Mary Goddard .

On the Lord's Day following I Preach'd to them twice, in order to prepare them for another World, and took the Portion of Scripture for my Text, from the 28th Chapter of Proverbs, and the 13th Verse. He that covereth his Sins shall not Prosper, but whosoever forsaketh them shall have Mercy.

In handling them, I

I. Explain'd the Nature of Sin, and the Guilt Contracted by it.

II. I enter'd into the Consequences that attended it and prov'd from Holy Writ, that the Sinner Ignominious in this Life, and Eternally Miserable without due Repentance in the next; an tho' he may flourish like a Bay-Tree, in his Tem

poral Concerns, he is lost to all Eternity in his Spiritual, without petitioning for Mercy, and preparing himself with an Humble and Contrite Heart, for the acceptance of it.

III. Having shewn them what Sin was, and represented it to them in its blackest Colours, I shew'd them what it was to forsake it, what Methods they ought to take for so Holy a Purpose; and what an Abhorrence they should entertain of so Detestable a thing as offending the great Governour of all things; The Creator of Heaven and Earth, by Wicked and Ungodly Practices.

IV, and Lastly, I applied the Consolation and Mercy to them, and dwelt some time upon the Conditions by which they were to expect it, and exhorted them to forsake Sin, by a Repentance not to be Repented of, by an open and hearty Confession of their Manifold Wickednesses, by a Discovery of such as had been Confederates with them, and by Imploring the Pardon of that God whose Mercy is over all his Works, and is sure to such as seek it according to the prescribed Methods in his Holy Word, &c.

On Monday the First of March, which was the Day following the Dead-Warrant came down, which order'd only Thomas Ellis and Mary Goddard for Execution, Deborah Churchill being respited by a Reprieve till she should be deliver'd of a Child, which a Midwife had given her Oath she was quick of, and Anne Simmons , by reason of her great Age,

and Her Majesties Compassion: Tho', for the Benefit of others, I shall proceed to their Behaviour and confession under the Sentence of death with the two others, that are the melancholy Occasion of this Paper.

I. Thomas Ellis , Condemn'd for breaking open the Dwelling-house of Sir Miles Hicks , of St. Peters Pauls Wharf , in the Night-time, and taking from thence two Silver hilted Swords, a Hanger, a Cloth Coat, two Pistols, a Bever Hat, with other things. He told me that he was about 32 Years of Age, that he was born of honest Parents, who put him Apprentice to a Poulterer , in which Occupation he behav'd himself honestly to the good liking of his Master and all that had any Concerns with him, till his Acquaintance with John Hall , and Stephen Bunch , two Criminals lately executed for Felony and Burglary, brought him to commit such Crimes as he stood Convicted for. He confess'd he had been an Old Offender, and had formerly receiv'd Mercy, but not living up to the Conditions of it, he had justly incurr'd the Punishment he was to suffer, by returning with the Dog to his Vomit, and keeping his old Acquaintance Company. He seem'd to be much concern'd for the many Robberies he had been Guilty of; and said, Nothing griev'd him more than that he was incapable of making Restitution: So that I must write him down for a hearty Penitent.

II. Mary Goddard , Convicted and Condemn'd for making an Assault on Jane Gregory , and taking from her Five Shillings in Money, the Money of

said Gregory, and one nry Moult, on the 10th of December last, &c. she was about 37 years of Age: That her Father was a Weaver in Chippinnorton , in Oxford re; and that being desirous of seeing London , left her Friends, and put her self Servant to a rcer in the Strand : That she behav'd her self the good liking of those she serv'd, till getting quainted with the aforesaid Thomas Ellis , for ose Wife she had pass'd for some years, she turned op-lifter; for which Crime she had formerly rev'd Sentence of Death; she continued the same cked Practice, which brought her some time since the Work-House in Bishop's-gate-street , where committed the Crime for which she was to die

III. Deborah Churchill , Condemn'd for Aiding Richard Hunt , William Lewis , and John Boy , in e Murder of Martin Ware , by giving him several Mortal Wounds with a Rapier, on the 12th of January last, of which he instantly dyed, said, she as in the 26th year of her Age, That her Parents ing when she was young, she was left to the Care an Uncle at Five years Old, who not shewing at Regard to her Education, as he ought to have one, she took her leave of him at Fifteen, after having been enticed by a Neighbour's Son, that got er with Child, she came up to London , where he got acquainted with a Bawd in great Wild-reet, who made Money of her, for the Service of he Unclean; and that she had continu'd in that Course of Lewdness, till her Commitment to the

eem heartily Penitent, and solv'd for an Amendment, should God spare Life, which I hope he has done, to forward so ligious a Purpose.

IV. Anne Simmons alias Smith , of the Parish Stepney , Condemn'd for privately Stealing from the Person, of Hester Bourn , on the 17th January last; She said that she was 60 Years of and born of very honest Parents, who dying w she was young, bequeathed her to the Care of Parish, by whom she was put an Apprentice Servant to a Farmer . But that she being prompted the Lust of the Flesh, and having had to do w several Young Men came to London : Where fing into evil Company, she got acquainted w Mary Raby , who was Executed some Years sin who initiated her in that wicked Art of Picki Pockets, which she had continu'd for Thirty Yea She seem'd extreamly desirous to make Reparatio which I hope she has done through, the Mercy her Saviour.

On Wednesday the 3d of March, being appointed for the Execution of Thomas Ellis , and Mry Goddard, I attended them in the Chappel Newgate , where not only these two, but all th lay under Condemnation were present. viz. Mr. Gregg, Mr. Maugridge, and the other two Women who are Repriev'd; I there earnestly press'd the to pray heartily that God would soften their harened Hearts, and bring them to a serious and heaty Repentance of all the former Wickednesses the

committed, which they did with great Ferven and Devotion; insomuch that they press'd me to minister the Holy Sacrament; which I perform'd rdingly; and afterwards expounded to them Holy Scriptures, and again exhorted them to upon their Redeemer for Mercy upon their Souls.

After which they were convey'd by the Sheriffs cers in a Cart to Tyburn, where I attended them he last.

aid before them the little Time that was be them and the Dark Night of Eternity, eary desiring them to improve every moment to Souls Advantage, and to cry mightily to that who was able to save them at the last Moment true Repentance, through the Merits of a Cru Saviour. I exhorted them to stir up their ts to God more and more to clear their Conces, and to discover any thing they knew t be of use to the World. They acknowledged were Guilty of the Facts for which they were to Suffer. They desired all Spectators to take ing by them, and to pray for them; wishing all that knew them would become wiser and r by their shameful Death, so as they might ome to the same Condemnation. Ellis said he een very Wicked, and done much Mischief; he hoped God had forgiven him, and would Mercy upon his Soul. He begged Pardon of hom he had injur'd, and freely forgave those had done him any wrong. Mary Goddard bitterly for the Sins of her Life, acknowledg

ing the Fact for which she was now to suffer; desired the People to pray for her, and let this shameful End be an Example for all such who fl the tender Mercies of God, and follow their Vitious Course of Life; for, said she, by keep Bad Company, and Prophaning the Lord's- hath been the Cause of my coming to this untin Death. When I had perform'd the Offices resite for my Function, and sung a penitential Psa I wished them a happy Passage out of this Life a better, and recommended their Souls to G boundless Mercy in Christ. Then they pray'd some minutes by themselves, and then were tur off; calling upon God all the while to have M upon their Souls, and open the Gate of Heaven them.

This is all the Account I can give here of t Malefactors,

Paul Lorain , Ordin

Wednesday, March 3.

