THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 21st of this Instant November, 1729.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Honourable Sir Robert Baylis , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Justice Probin: the Honourable Mr. Baron Cummins; the Right Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Raby, Deputy Recorder of the City of London, and other of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, being the 27th, 28th, 29th, and 30th of August, 1729, in the 3d Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Four Men, viz. William Simpson , Henry Mitchel Arnold , Daniel Bolton , and William Rogers ; and one Woman, viz. Margaret Lawrence , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Crimes, and receiv'd Sentence of Death. As also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Honourable Sir Robert Baylis , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Rt. Honourable the Lord Chief Justice Raymond; the Honourable Mr. Justice Denton; the Honourable Mr. Baron Hales; the Right Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Raby, Deputy Recorder, and several others of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery for the City of London, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Monday, being the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, and 20th of October, 1729, in the 3d Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Robert Oliver , John Dyer , Abraham Dumbleton , John Showswood , and Richard Tonnard ; and on Woman, viz. Esther Morgan , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

Whiie under Sentence of Death, they were instructed from these Words, St. Mat. 1. 21. And thou shall call his Name Jesus; for he shall save his People from their Sins: in the great Design of the Christian Salvation; which consists not in an empty speculative Faith, that the Son of God died for the Sins of the World, but in an active Faith attended with good Works, bringing forth the peacable Fruits of Righteousness, which are to the Glory and Praise of God; for, Faith without Works is dead, being alone, St. James, 2 17. I shew'd them, that there is no doubt, but Christ delivers Men from eternal Death and Hell Torments, which is the Punishment that is due unto our Sins; this Christ has undoubtedly purchas'd for all those that are his. Rom. 8. 1. Now therefore there is no Condemnation to them that are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the Flesh, but after Spirit. God who might in Justice exact those Punishments, is now reconcil'd to us by the Death of his Son, having given to us the Spirit of Adoption, whereby we can cry Abba, Father. As for this Deliverance from the Worm of Conscience and eternal Fire of Hell, it is what all Men must greatly esteem, for who can abide with everlasting Burnings? And therefore among all those, who are not atheistical or desperately Wicked, we find few or none, who will not make some outward Profession, and perform some Acts of Religion, that thereby they might quiet their Consciences, with some Confidence, although never so Groundless, of their Share in this Salvation. I convinc'd them in how many Instances they had been Guilty of the Breach of their baptismal Vows, for which they ought bitterly to mourn before God, to renew themselves by an unfeigned Repentance, and by partaking in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, as a certain Emblem and Pledge of our everlasting Enjoyment of, and Communion with God and Christ, in Heaven hereafter.

While these and many other Instructions were given, They were all attentive to my Exhortations, and made regular Responses to the Prayers. Bolton and Oliver, were most of the Time Sick, Esther Morgan and Tonnard did not appear in Chapel above two or three Days; Rogers had also a violent Fit of Sickness for about Fortnight, but at other Times gave very regular Attendance in Chapel; as I visited them frequently in the Cells, they all profest a deep Penitence for their Sins.

Upon Monday the 17th of this Instant November, the Report was made to his Majesty in Council of the above Eleven Malefactors, under Sentence of Death in Newgate. John Showswood of St. Martin's in the Fields , for stealing 3 gold Watches, val. 75 l. two Diamond Rings, a Pistol, val. 10 s. and other Goods, out of the House of Mr. John Buchan , the 15th of August last; and Margaret Laurence , of St. Andrew's Holbourn , for feloniously stealing a Gold Watch, Chain, and Seals, val. 24 l. a Gold Snuff-Box, val. 18 l. a Diamond Ear-ring, one Velvet Gown and Petticoat, and other Suits of Cloaths, and divers other wearing Apparel, Silk and Linnen, as Head dress, Ruffles, Laces, &c. to the Sum of 80 l. and 40 Guineas, the Goods of Martha Thorold , out of the dwelling House of the said Martha Thorold , the 9th of July last; receiv'd his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve. The remaining Nine, viz.

William Simpson , Henry Mitchel Arnold , Daniel Bolton , William Rogers , Robert Oliver , John Dyer , Abraham Dumbleton , Richard Tonnard , and Esther Morgan , were order'd for Execution.

John Dyer , and Abraham Dumbleton , of St. James's Westminster , were Indicted for breaking open the House of Mr. Topping, in the Night time, the 16th of August last, and stealing 20 yards of printed Linnen, also some Russia-Linnen, and other Goods, to a considerable Value.

John Dyer , and Abraham Dumbleton , were Indicted a second Time, of St. Andrew's Holbourn , for Assaulting Mr. Bradley, on the Highway, putting him in fear of his Life, and taking from him a Hat, a Perriwig, and a Cane.

John Dyer , (as he said) was thirty one Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Salisbury , who intended him good Education, which he would not Receive, for he did

not like to go to School: And when of Age fit for a Trade, he would stay at no settl'd Business, but soon left his own Country, and came to London , where he soon got into Company of a Gang of Thieves, and to make him compleat he said, he got acquainted with one of the Women of the Town for a Wife. He prov'd a considerable Proficient in his Way, having been one of the most noted Thieves in England, for House Breaking, Robbing in the Streets, on the Highway, Picking of Pockets, and all the different Species of Stealing and Thieving. About Seven Years ago he was taken up, upon which, he turn'd Evidence against his Companions; after that he said, he was detain'd in Newgate about seven Years last past, until about three or four Months ago he got his Liberty; when he neither had Sense nor Grace, to seek after any honest Business for a Livelihood; but applied himself with his Companion and Fellow-Sufferer, Dumbleton, to House-Breaking, and Street-Robberies, for which they were taken up in Six or Seven Weeks after they had got out of Newgate , where they were since kept to receive their Doom. He own'd, that he had been a very wicked young Fellow, in disobeying his Parents, Sabbath-Breaking, keeping very vile and wicked Company, Drinking, Whoring, Gaming, and all manner of Vices. He said, that lewd Women were a principal means of bringing him to his Misfortunes; and he reflected on her who went for his Wife, as the main Instrument of making him follow such wicked Courses, and likewise for Cohabiting with Cole, the Evidence who Swore against him.

While he was under Condemnation, he writ down an Account of his many Villainies and Rogueries, which he has committed for these fifteen Years; and gave it to the PRINTER of this PAPER, to Publish it the Day before his Execution. He acknowledg'd the two Robberies of which he was Convicted, and the Justice of his Sentence according to Law; only he reflected on Mr. Bradely; I told him, he had almost Murder'd him, and therefore he had no Reason for any Reflections, he acknowledg'd, that his Evidence was true; only he alledg'd, that he was not exact in some Circumstances; however he freely forgave his Prosecutors, and one Cole, who was an Evidence against him.

He said he could not be easie in his Mind till he had acquainted me with the following Robberies which he committed, and desir'd it may be made Publick to the World, which are as follows, viz. His Master whom he was bound too, sent him among his Customers to get in some Money, which was due to him; upon which he got up about three Pound; and as soon as he had receiv'd it, he went off, and made the best of his way for Salisbury in Wiltshire ; as soon as he came there, he got acquainted with a young Woman, and with her Assistance, and his own, he soon spent the Money; he said, when Madam found the Money gone, she march'd off too, and then he was put to his Shift. He said he was going one Day into Salisbury Market , where he spy'd a young Woman, whom he saw receive some Money, then he follow'd and watch'd her till she left the Town; then he follow'd her, and overtook her, and knock'd her down, and robb'd her of what Money she had; afterwards he made her go into the Wood, where he made her comply to his Lustful Desire; this Robbery was committed two Miles from Salisbury . Afterwards he made his Addresses to a young Woman, at a Place call'd Forthingbridge in Hampshire , where he went to work Journey-Work , and so became acquainted with her; and after some small Acquaintance, he went to lodge at her Mother's, and that was what he wanted, and where he made bold to take up his Lodging with the Daughter, and got her with Child, and they both consulted to rob her Mother, which they did of twenty Pounds, and afterwards made the best of their Way for Bristol , where they liv'd upon the Reversion of the Money till it was all gone. She return'd to visit her Mother, where the good old Woman receiv'd her and the Child with Abundance of Joy, he thought it not proper for him to appear, therefore made the best of his Way.

After this, he went to see his Mother at Salisbury , and had not been long with her, before he took an Opportunity to rob her of Fifty Pounds, and went immediately for Bristol , and there Gamed best Part of the Money away: Then he took to Work at his Trade again, and from Bristol he went to a Place call'd Thornbury in Gloucestershire , and there he came acquainted with one Mrs. Low a Widow Woman, where they liv'd together about six Months, and they took the Town in for about 30 l. then they Sold all off, and went to a Place call'd Weekware , and there the Biter was Bit; for he agreed with a Collier to go Partners with him, and was to give him 50 l. whereof he gave him 30 l. down, and was to pay him the other Monthly, but before he came to pay the first Payment, his very good Friend the Collier went off of the Ground, and so the Biter was Bit indeed, so he pack'd up his Alls and came away from thence.

He profess'd himself a Penitent for his great Sins, but did not appear to be broken and tender-hearted, as became one in his dismal Condition, but rather of a bold, obdurate Temper.

Abraham Dumbleton , about 21 or 22 Years of Age, born of mean Parents in London , who put him to a Charity-School, but he was of such a perverse, disobedient Temper, that he did not profit much. When of Age he went to no Business, as unwilling to apply himself to any thing, but picking of Pockets, and thieving from his Childhood. He confess'd himself to have been a great Sinner, in Drinking, Swearing, Thieving, Sabbath-breaking, and other Vices; and that he had forsaken God and neglected his Ordinances, and that therefore his Calamities had most justly and deservedly come upon him. About three Years ago he marry'd a Wife, who, he said, had no hand in his Misfortunes, and that he had kept Company with lewd Wemen, as some of his Fraternity too frequently do to their Misfortunes; but that he associated himself with the worst of Men, who were the most notorious Thieves and Black-guards about the Town, and who brought him to his speedy Ruin. About two Years and a half ago, he was taken up upon Suspicion of Robberies, and then he took to be an Evidence against others, but one Kemp, against whom he was to swear, was, without any further Trial, executed for returning from Transportation. Upon this he was detain'd in Newgate for two Years, till lately getting out with Dyer, his Brother in Iniquity, they were both in a very short Time apprehended again, and brought to condign Punishment for their evil Deeds. He own'd the breaking of Mr. Toppings's House, and their assaulting and beating Mr. Bradely, in a most cruel and barbarous Manner, in Great Kirby-street , near Hatton-Garden ; but as to the bruising one of his Fingers, and rendering it useless, and wounding him in the Head, they having been oblig'd to run away, he doubted not but it might be so, but said, he knew nothing of it. He attended constantly in Chappel, and made regular Responses, but seem'd to be too much obdur'd and harden'd. He declar'd that he believed in Jesus Christ, that he was the Son of God, a

only Saviour of Sinners, through whom he expected Salvation, that he repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

William Rogers , was indicted, for that he having been convicted of a Felony, at a Sessions held the 14th of January, in the 12th Year of his late Majesty King George, for which he was transported, did return from Transportation before the Expiration of seven Years. He being prov'd to be the same Person, the Jury found him Guilty. Death.

William Rogers , about 40 Years of Age, of mean Parents, who educated him at School to reading and writing, and instructed him in the necessary Articles of the Christian Faith, and when he was of Age, put him out Apprentice to a Shoe-maker , to which Trade he serv'd his Time, and afterwards he liv'd Industriously, (as he said) and earn'd his Bread by hard Labour, in the Station of a Journeyman-Shoe-maker . He marry'd a Wife, with whom he liv'd in Love and Friendship, till he was transported, but since that Time she hath proved a very undutiful and disobedient Wife. He began to neglect his Business, and to take himself to the Company of idle People and loose Women, and this was the Cause of his Misfortunes: For then to support his Prodigality, and maintain an idle Life, he began to pilfering and thieving, and being taken up for privately stealing some Shoes out of a Shop, two or three Years ago, he was for that Crime transported to Maryland , where after he had serv'd some Time, from thence he fled from his Master to Virginia , and at Williamsburgh he got a Master in his own Business, with whom he had very good Encouragement, and might have done well in that Country: But having been possess'd of a longing desire of returning to England , though he knew that he was liable to a capital Penalty, he came Home accordingly, out of Love to his Wife, who would not come near him, but cohabits now with another Man, and would by no Means be seen by her true Husband while alive; and upon this Account he blam'd her for his unfortunate Death. He was not so desperately Wicked as many of those miserable Wretches are. He behav'd Decently and Christianly while under Sentence, own'd that he died justly according to Law, declar'd that he believ'd in Christ his Saviour, that he was Penitent for his Offences, and at Peace with all the World.

Daniel Bolton , of Harrow-on-the-Hill , was indicted for feloniously stealing a brown Gelding, val. 8 l. the Property of Thomas Page , the 15th of August last. The Prosecutor depos'd, that two idle Men lurking about, or near to his House, he and his Man, about 9 or 10 o'Clock at Night, observ'd the Prisoner bringing the Horse over the Hedge, and another Person on the other side of the Hedge putting him forward; that he stopping the Horse, the Prisoner quitted him, and ran into the Hedge, upon which he was immediately apprehended, and then for Excuse said, that he was to bring him again in two Hours.

Daniel Bolton , about 25 Years of Age, descended of honest but mean Parents in Berkshire , who put him to School and taught him to read and write, and when of Age he follow'd Country Work. He was much afflicted with Sickness while under Sentence, and behav'd always very Christianly and Decently, both in Chappel and the Cells. He said, that he had liv'd Soberly and Honestly, except in the single Instance for which he died, and that that was done by Compact with and Advice of another young Man, who made his Escape. He denied, that he was addicted to those Vices, which are commonly incident to Thieves and Robbers. He appear'd to be a simple, clownish, ignorant, country Fellow. He died in the Faith of Jesus, repenting of his Sins, and in Peace with all the World.

William Simpson , of the Parish of St. Sepulchre's , was indicted for feloniously stealing a black Gelding, Value 10 l. the Property of John Tull , the 17th of August last.

William Simpson , 19 Years of Age, born in Gloucestershire , of creditable honest Parents, who gave him good Education, at School, and instructed him in the Articles of Christianity, and when of Age put him Apprentice to a Taylor , but not loving that Employment did not follow it, but staid with a Relation, who was a Farmer, and applied himself to Country Business with him. He said, that he never was Wicked in the Practice of those Vices, which are the Bane of unfortunate Miscreants, only that he was inclin'd to Idleness and gadding about, and would not apply himself to any settled Employment. He was much afflicted with Sickness, during his long Confinement under Sentence, and carried himself always in a decent and penitent Manner, both in Publick and Private. He declar'd, that he hop'd to be saved through the Merits of Jesus Christ, that he was a sincere Penitent, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Robert Oliver , alias William Johnson , of St. Laurence Jewry , was indicted for feloniously stealing 47 Guineas, the Property of Joseph Hepworth , in the Dwelling-house of Sarah North , the 14th of June last.

Robert Oliver , alias William Johnson , 22 Years of Age, born in Yorkshire , had Education at School in reading and writing, and was instructed in the fundamental Articles of Christian Doctrine, and when of Age was put Apprentice to a Tallow Chandler . When out of his Time he came to Town to follow his Business, and happen'd into the Service of Mrs. North, where he committed the above Robbery upon his Fellow Servant . He was a sullen, moross young Fellow, from whom it was hard to extort a Word. He had but an indifferent Character before he committed this Robbery, as it was since found; but when he was ask'd Questions of that Kind, he answer'd in the Negative, No. He own'd that he took the Money, as sworn against him, and that he went with it to Great Moorgate , where he gave 22 Guineas for a Horse, on which he rode to Yorkshire , and there he made an Exchange of his Horse for another, and got four Guineas upon the Difference. Hss Prosecutor having sustain'd so considerable a Loss, rode down to Yorkshire in Quest of him, and after much Fatigue found him, and got him imprison'd, and seiz'd his Horse, as due to him for taking a Thief or Robber, but could receive none of his Money, and the Horse was but a sorry Recompence for his Damage, being scare worth any thing. He found Means to make his Escape out of Beaverly Prison , and after that having sculk'd a short Time in the Country, he came up to London again, where he was apprehended a second Time, and committed to Newgate , in order to receive a deserved Punishment for his Villainy. He had, sin the preceeding Part of his Life, been of a wicked perverse and thievish Disposition. He pretended Penitence, as did all the Rest, but few external Signs appear'd in any of them. He declar'd, that he believ'd in Christ, repented of his Sins, and freely forgave all the World.

Esther Morgan , of St. Andrew's, Holbourn , was indicted for feloniously stealing a Gold Watch, a Gold Snuff Box, Value 18 l. Diamond Ear-rings, Value 18 l. a Suit of Headcloaths, Value 5 l. four Gowns, Value 20 l. and divers other Goods of great Value, 49 Guineas, and other Money in Silver, to the Value of 138 l. in the Dwelling-house of Martha Thorold , Spinster, the 9th of July last.

Esther Morgan , 27 Years of Age, of honest and creditable Parents, in the County of Radnor , had (as she said) very good Education, and was instructed in every Thing proper to a young Woman of her Station. Contrary to the

Advice and Will of her Parents, she left them, when only 17 Years of Age, and came to London, where she serv'd in several Families of Quality, for some Years, with Approbation and Honestly, till at last she came to be out of Place, for more than a whole Year, and then being put to her Invention, not knowing what to do, she conspir'd with the two Maids and Margaret Laurence , to rob Madam Thorold; which wicked Purpose of theirs they accordingly put in Execution, upon the first Opportunity. She constantly denied that she was the first Proposer of this execrable Purpose, as was reported of her; and said, that the two House Maids persuaded both her and Margaret Laurence , to concur with them in robbing their Mistress. Excepting two or three Days, she was very Sick and distress'd all the Time she was under Sentence, but when I visited her, she always declar'd herself very Penitent. She acknowledg'd that she had been Disobedient to her Parents, but said, that in the preceeding Course of her Life, she had neither been Thief, Whore, nor Drunkard. Some People gave her a very bad Character, as if she had gone about the Streets to observe, and if Opportunity offer'd it, to rob the Houses of honest People, but she said, that this was only to sell off some Goods, belonging to a Milliner of the City, with whom she was acquainted. She appear'd to have been a sensible young Woman, who, if she had behav'd well, might have met with a better Fate. She was always very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, and the Evening before she died, not being able to walk, she was carried up to Chappel, and express'd a deal of Satisfaction in the Prayers, and a Sermon upon Death and Eternity, which she heard. She wanted all Necessaries, and had no Body to own her, and said that they with whom she left her Cloaths, would send her none of them, although she was not indebted to them. She was apparently Penitent, profess'd her Faith in Christ, our Saviour, and that she died in Peace with all Mankind.

N. B. Henry Mitchel Arnold , of the Parish of All-Saints , for Burglariously breaking the Dwelling-House of Dennis Rolls his Master, and Feloniously taking 8 Guineas, 5 Silver Spoons, a Silver Cup, &c. the 17th of July last, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve upon Thursday Morning, the Day before the Execution. And

Richard Tonnard , Convicted for Stealing of a brown Mare, value 5 l. the property of Henry Smith , the 13th of September last, having been Sick all the Time he was under Sentence, died upon Thursday Forenoon, the Day before the rest were Executed, between the Hours of 10 and 12, as we were up at Chappel.

At the Place of Execution.

THEY all appear'd outwardly Penitent, and griev'd for their past Sins. Esther Morgan , said, she had nothing to add to her former Confessions, only she desir'd me to Pray for her. Simpson said, he was very willing to leave the World, it being full of Sin and Sorrow, altho' he was in a Years time to Possess an Estate of 300 l. per Annum. He own'd that he had been a very great Sinner, and that Drinking, and bad Company-keeping, particularly with lewd and vile Women had brought him to his Ruin. He said also, this very Day which I am to Dye this Ignominious Death, my Mother Dy'd which is now four Years ago. He express'd a strong Confidence in the Mercy of God thro' Jesus Christ.

Robert Oliver , also said, that he had been a most vicious and unruly young Man in every respect, and that therefore the Judgment of God had most justly overtaken him. The rest said, that they had nothing to add to their former Confessions They were all very desirous of Prayer, and they left this World crying to God to have Mercy upon them, and that the Lord Jesus might receive their Spirits.

John Dyer , made the following Speech just before he was turn'd off.

Good People,

' I Desire all who are here and see my untimely End, ' to take Warning and shun my Steps, and keep ' good Company; more especially to avoid lewd Women, which was the first cause of my Ruin: I have ' given a particular Account of all the Robberies by ' me Committed, to the Printer of this Paper, which ' I desir'd might be made Publick for the satisfaction ' of my Self, and all those I have Robb'd; which was ' Yesterday Publish'd. I beg of all good Christians to ' Pray for my departing Soul, for I must own I have ' been a great Offender, and have run a long Race in ' Wickedness, and am now justly cut off for my past ' Offences. So the Lord of his infinite Mercy Pardon ' me, my Sins, Lord Jesus receive me, and into thy ' Hands O Lord I commend my Spirit.

John Dyer .

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE , Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENT.

This is to give NOTICE,

That on the 8th of December next, A Woman's Prize-Shoe, made by the Famous Mr. James Jackson , an Englishman, made against Mr. John Winderham , an Irishman. The Shoes were made about Six Weeks a gone, and was shown at the Nag's-Head in Oxendon-Street , Piccadilly , where the Persons chose Umpires disagreed in their Judgment; upon which the Irishman being vain of his own Performance, gave Mr. Jackson half a Guinea, and a Pair of Pumps, to allow his Shoe to be the best done. Mr. Jackson's Shoe, is to be seen at Mr. Morris's, at the Red-Lyon in Red-Lyon-Street near St. Margaret's-Hill , in the Borough of Southwark .

London Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Black-Fryers .

