The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Wednesday the 3d day of March. 1707/1708.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily on Wednesday and Thursday the 25th and 26th days of February last past, Four Persons received Sentence of Death, which was this day executed upon Two of them only; the other Two having obtain'd Her Majesty's gracious Reprieve; which God grant they may improve to their own and others good.

While they were under this Condemnation. I visited them twice every day: And on the LORD's-DAY the 29th of February I Preached to them and others that were in the Chappel both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Prov. 28. 13. the Words being these, He that covereth his Sins shall not prosper: But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have Mercy.

From which I shew'd;

I. That the hiding of One's Sins will not (as deluded Men vainly fancy they may) have the Success of escaping Punishment: But on the contrary will be shamefully exposs'd and severely punished, either in this Life or in the other, or in both; as I am affraid it often is the Case of incorrigible Sinners. Which is imply'd in the former Clause of the Text. He that covereth his Sins shall not prosper.

II. That they who do ingenuously confess, and utterly abhor and forsake their Sins, and amend their Lives, shall be reinstated into God's Favour, which they had forfeited, and shall have well-grounded Hopes and Spiritual Joys and Comforts in their Souls even in this World, and in the World to come unspeakable Happiness and Glory, and Life everlasting. Which is meant by this Latter Clause, that stands opposite the First. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.

On these two general Heads I inlarg'd, and for the greater Illustration of them, branch'd them out into several Particulars; shewing,

Ist. That Confession of Sins is a most necessary Part of Repentance.

2dly. That the Forsaking of our Sins, is an evident Proof of the Sincerity of our Repentance.

3dly, That though outward Acts of Grief, as Weeping, Lamentations, and the like, may not be absolutely, requisite in Repentance; Yet they well become it, and are often (if not always) great Demonstrations of the inward Sorrow which we feel in our hearts upon the account of our Sins, against God, our Neighbours, and our own Souls.

4thly. That the Effects and Benefits of true Repentance are very great and blessed Things, and most comfortable to a poor dejected Sinner.

1. Because such a Repentance delivers him (in a great measure) from his present trouble, in that it makes them more light and easy to him.

2. Because it prevents, or at least removes those Fears he might otherwise be disturbed with, of being miserable beyond expression in another World.

3. Because it reconciles him to God, and restores him to a Capacity of being made happy with Him for ever; the true Penitent having an Interest in Christ, and a Right to all the Priviledges and Blessings of Christianity.

Having largely discoursed upon these, I concluded at both times with a particular Application and Exhortation to the Condemned; whom (in my daily Attendances) I endeavour'd to bring to Repentance. I shew'd them the Necessity of quitting their Sins, and the Danger of carrying the guilt of them upon their Conscience into another World. I press'd them to make an ingenuous and free Confession of what they knew might be of use and satisfaction, either for the Publick or any private Persons to know: But they seem'd to decline it; saying, That they had nothing to discover, nor could make any Reparation or Satisfaction to the World otherwise than by suffering the Punishment they were condem'd to, and acknowledging (as they did) the Justice of it. So that the Accounts which they gave me of themselves were only these.

I. Thomas Ellis , Condemn'd for a Felony and Burglary by him committed on the 17 day of October last in the House of Sir Miles Hicks in the Parish of St. Peter Paul's Wharf , taking from thence two Silver Hilted Swords, a Hanger, and two Pistols, with a Cloath-Coat, a Beaver-Hat and other things. He confess'd, that he was concerned in that Fact, and had been guilty of several others of the like Nature; and that he had received Mercy before, and abus'd it. I found him very obstinate and unwilling to be brought to any particular Confession: Only he said, He had committed all manner of Sins, except Murther, and that he was chiefly guilty of House breaking, of Swearing, and Drunkenness, of profaning the Lord's-day, and living a loose and lewd Life. He said further, that he was not Marry'd to the Woman that he call'd and went for his Wife, but they had lived for several years together as Man and Wife. He would not own at first that he had done very ill in living so, and that such a continual Life of Fornication and Uncleanness was most contrary to the Purity of the Christian Religion: But at last he began to be sensible of it, and that it was a Sin very heinous in its Nature and most pernicious in its Consequences, and that it had drawn in several other Crimes along with it; and wish'd that other Loose Livers, as himself had been, would take Warning by him, and avoid that and other Sins, left they should bring themselves to ruin and destruction both of Body and Soul. Being ask'd what Trade or Calling (if any) he was brought up to; He told me. That when he was young he was bound to a Shoe-maker , but did not serve out his time; That he had been at Sea diverse times, and served on board several of Her Majesty's Ships , and that he was 30 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Andrew's Holborn , and had had good Education, but not made that improvement of it which he should have done. He said he was sorry he had been so great an Offender, and begg'd of God and all the Persons he had wrong'd to forgive him; adding that he forgave all the World, and dy'd in Charity with all Men.

II. Mary Goddard , alias Buck , alias Ellis , condemned for breaking out of the Bridewell in Clarken-well , and privately Stealing 5 s. from Jane Gregory , &c. She deny'd the Stealth, but own'd her making her Escape out of that Work-house, to which she was committed. She acknowledg'd she had been a wicked Woman, and had been burnt several times in the Cheek, and once in the Hand; And that she had lived in Fornication for these 10 Years last past with Thomas Ellis above mention'd, and went all along for his Wife, though they neither were, nor ever intended to be Marry'd. She said she was about 30 Years of age, born in Pickadilly , and a Mantua-maker by her Trade, by which she might (if she would) have got a very good Livelihood; but was wickedly inclin'd; saying, that she ow'd all the evil she had done and had brought upon her self to her vicious Disposition. She in general (as her suppos'd Husband) acknowledg'd that she was guilty of all Sins but Murther; and she pray'd to God to forgive her for Christ's sake, in whose Merits alone she said she put her whole Trust and Hope of Salvation.

At the Place of Execution (whither they were this day carry'd in a Cart) I met them, and prayed with them for the last time. I exhorted them to clear their Consciences, and stir up their Hearts to God more and more: And I desir'd them before they departed out of this World, to leave behind them a Warning that might deterr other Sinners from going on in their wicked Courses, and per

swade them to amend their Lives. Upon which Advice they spoke to this Effect; viz.

Thomas Ellis , That he had been a great Sinner, but desir'd that none would, upon the account of his shameful Death, reflect on his Mother or Sister, who were very honest. He pray'd much and very earnestly, and begg'd the Standers-by to joyn with him; and he expres'd a great Confidence that he should be sav'd, and that his Soul should be this day with Christ in Paradie.

As for Mary Buck , She desir'd, that her Death might be a Warning to others, and that God would have mercy upon her. She seem'd not to be so confident of of her Salvation as Ellis; but her Humility and dejectedness (not to say Despondency) better became such a Sinner.

After this I pray'd again, and sung some Penitential Psalms, with the Lamentation of a Sinner. They also rehears'd with me the Apostles Creed; and being ask'd whether they stedfastly believ'd all these Articles of our Christian Faith; They answer'd they did, and pray'd to God to have Mercy upon their Souls. Then I wish'd them that Life Everlasting, which they had now profess'd to believe: And so commending them to the further Assistance of the Divine Grace, I left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allow'd them.

Then the Cart drew away and they were turn'd off, while they cry'd to God for mercy in these and the like Ejaculations. O Lord God I flee to thee! Lord help me! Lord save me! Lord Jesus receive my Soul: &c.

Wednesday. March 3. 1707/1708.

This is all the Account now to be given of these Malefactors by

PAUL LORRAIN Ordinary .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Robert Whitledg Book binder , at the Bible in Crede-lane within Ludgate , London , can furnish all Booksellers and others with the Welsh-Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack; and with all Sorts of other Bibles and Common-Prayers. With all other Books neatly Bound, or Unbound, at reasonable Rates.

Just published (Printed on Fine Paper with a Large Letter, and approved of by above 30. School-Masters as the best Spelling-Book extant) very useful also for Foreigners:

A Guide to the English Tongue in two Parts the first shewing a Natural and Easy Method to Pronounce and express both Common Words and proper Names; In which particular care is had to shew the Acsent for preventing vicious Pronounciation: The Second containing Observations on the sound of Letters, and Diphthongs, Rules for the true Division of Syllables and the use of Capitals, Stops and Marks, with large Tables of Observations and Distinctions of Words, and several Alphabets of Instructions for Young Writers. By Thomas Dyche School-master in London : Printed for Samuel Butler at Bernards-Inn-Gate in Holborn , and may be had at Mr. Stewarts on London Bridge, Mr. Hollands near St. Pauls Church, and Mr. Harbins in the Strand price bound One Shilling

Buography: Or, A Touch at the Lady's Tails. Being a Lampoon privately dispers'd at Tbride Wells, in the Year, 1707. by a Water-Drinker, with the Names and Characters of the most noted Water-Drinkers. Also a merry Elegy upon Mother Jefferies, the Ancient Water-Dipper, Price 1. s. The first and second Part of the Pulpit Fool, giving a Distinct Character of the most noted Clergy-Men in the Queens Dominions, both Church-Men and Dissenters. All four sold by the Book-sellers of London and Westminster.

THE Prophetical Warnings of John Lacy Esq ; pronounc'd under the Operation of the Spirit, and faithfully taken in Writing when they were spoken. Printed for B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-row, Price 6d. Where may be had the 2d and 3d Parts, by the said Author: And this week will be Published An answer to Enthusiastick Impostors, no Divine Inspir'd Prophets.

THE Character of an -Court Favourite Representing the Mischiefs that flow from Ministers of State when they are more great than Good, the Arts they use to Seduce their Masters, and the Unhappiness of Princes, that are Curs'd with such Destructive Servants. Translated out of French. Price Six-pence.

AN answer to the Scrutiny, or Remarks upon two late dissertations upon Horace price 2 pence, to be continued. A Burlesque Poem in praise of Ignorance, the greatest part thereof composed 58 Years ago, by Edmund Hickeringil , price 1 s. Poems on several Occasions, by Thomas Couch . A. B. Oxon price 1 s. The Seditious Insects, or the Levellers assembled in Convocation, a Poem price 1 s. The Landlords Tale, a Poem, from the 28th Book of Orlando Furioso in 2 Cantos, price 1 s.

THe right way of trying Prophets, or some Considerations and Reasons to prove the truth of the great Dispensation of Divine Providence already begun by Prophetick Inspiration, to wit, the sudden appearance of the Kingdom of Christ upon Faith, by the wonderful Effusion of the Holy Ghost, by F. M. One of the Sect of those called Prophets. To which is added an answer thereunto, Paragraph by paragraph, together with some Remarks on the Knowledge of the Devil, in contingent Futurities and natural Philosophy, as deliver'd in a Sermon. Nov. 9th. 1707. by G. Philadelph, price 6. d.

THe Wooden World dissected, in a Character of 1st a Ship of War, 2d a Sea Captain. 3d a Sea Lieutenant. 4th. a Sea Chaplain, 5th the Master of the Ship of War, 6th the Purser, 7th, the Surgeon, 8th the Gunner, 9th the Carpenter, 10th the Boatswain, 11th a Sea Cook, 12th a Midshipman, 13th the Captains Steward, 14th a Sailor, &c. by a Lover of the Mathematicks, the 2d. Edition corrected and amended, by the Author. price One Shilling.

SEcret Memoirs of the Life of the Honourable Sir Cloudesly Shovel , Kt . Admiral of Great Britain , containing his Birth; Education and Rise, with a full account of all the Naval Battles since the Revolution, and other honourable Exploits performed for the Service of his Country, and a more exact relation of the Enterprize upon Toulon, than any yet extent. By a Gentleman who served in that Expedition and was several Years under Command of that Admiral, with his Effigies curiously engraven on a Copper Plate, Price One Shilling.

MEmoirs of the right Villanous John Hall , the late famous and Notorious Robber. Pen'd from his Mouth some time before his Death. Containing the Exact Life, and Character of a Thief in General. As also a lively Representation of Newgate , and its Inhabitants, with the Manners and Customs observed there. The Nature and Means by which they Commit their several Thefts and Robberies, and the Distinctions observed in their respective Functions. To which is added, the Cant generally us'd by those sort of People to conceal their Villanies; and Rules to avoid being Robb'd or Cheated by them. Usefully set forth for the Good of the Publick, at the Instance of many Honest People.

JUst published a Sermon in 40 and 80 on the Consecration of Dr. Blackhall Lord Bishop of Exeter and Dr. Trimnel Lord Bishop of Norwich, by S. Bradford D. D. A Sermon on 30, of Jan. 1707 by Mr. Luke Milbourn , Two Practical Discourses of Christian Patience and Predominant Passions, price 6d. Printed for R. Burrough and J. Baker at the Sun and Moon in Cornhill and sold by J. Morphew near Stationers Hall.

THis day is Publisht Select Discourses on the Being of a God, the Resurrection of the Body, Immortality of the Soul, Predestination, &c. by Dr . Thomas Emes , who (according to the Predictions of the French Prophets is to rise from the Dead the 25th of May 1708. Printed for J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall.

TO morrow will be published the Jovial Crew or the Merry Beggars a Comedy acted both at the Queen's Theater and the Theater Royal at the same time, with the Actors names who play'd at both Houses, and after, upon the uniting both Companys into One, in Drury-Lane; likewise all the Songs, and a Key to the Beggars Cant, written by Richard Brome Author of the Northern Lass. This day is Published Sauny the Scot or the Taming the Shrew a Comedy as it is now Acted, at the Theater Royal in Drury Lane by Her Majestys Company of Comedians written by John Lacy Esq . Sold by B. Bragg, price 1 s. 6d.

JUst Published Secret Memoirs of the Duke and Dutchess, of Orleance Intermixt with Amorous Intrigues and Adventures of the most Eminent Princes of the Court of France, written by the Countess of D'Aunoy. The Secret History of the Calves-Head-Club; or, The Republican in Fashion where is shewn the Spirit, of that wicked Party. The Duke of Roahns Manual or a Guide for Soldiers from a Subaltern to a Captain General to which is Prefixt Caesrs Commentaries and the new Art of War made English by an English Officer Price 2 s. 6d. All Sold by B. Bragg.

THe WORKS of Mr. T. Brown, Serious, Moral and Comical in Prose and Verse, in 3 Vol. Character of Mr. Brown by Dr Drake. The WORKS of Sr Charles Sidley , B. The AMOURS of the Court of England, viz. K. Charle, 2d, D of Monmouth, D. of Buckingham, Ld. Gray, E. of Argiles By the Author of the Lady's Travels. Sir William Cavindish 's MEMOIRS of Cardinal Wolsey. The Picture of a Favourite, in the Secret MEMOIRS of the Earl of Leicester, Printed from an Old M. S. Publish'd by Dr. Drake.

London: Printed by T. B. and Sold by Benj. Bragge , at the Black-Raven in Pater Noster-Row

