The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Speech of JOHN ADDISON , who was Executed at TYBURN on Friday the 2d day of March, 1710/1711.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday the 21st, and Thursday the 22d of February last past, Five Persons (viz. Four Men and One Woman) being convicted of several Capital Crimes, receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly. Of these Five Malefactors, Four have obtain'd a gracious Reprieve, and One only is now order'd for Execution.

While they were under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them brought up (twice every day) to the Chapel of Newgate, where I pray'd with them, and read, and expounded the Word of GOD to them; thereby endeavouring to make them truly Sensible and Penitent of their past Follies, and so prepare themselves (through the Divine Grace) to die with a good Conscience, clear and void of Offence towards GOD, and towards Men.

On the LORD'S DAY the 25th of February last, I preach'd to them and others there present (both in the Morning and Afternoon) upon Psal. 119. 59. I thought on my Ways, and turn'd my Feet unto thy Testimonies.

From which Words, whereby David elegantly and metaphorically describes his Repentance, (which is an excellent Pattern for ours) I did (after a general Explanation of them) shew,

I. What that Repentance must be, which GOD will please to accept of.

II. The great Motives to, and blessed Effects of, such a Repentance.

And under these two Heads, I gave them some Directions, How they might repent unto Salvation; concluding (at both times) with particular and suitable Admonitions and Exhortations to the Condemn'd.

Those of them that are Repriev'd, I shall here say nothing of, but give them this Word of Advice, (which I hope they will follow, if they love their own Souls) viz. That they would call to remembrance what I then told them, of the great danger those Sinners are in, of being finally shut out of all Mercy, who do wilfully abuse it, and put off their Repentance from day to day.

Which great Concern leaving to their serious Consideration, I shall now apply my self, in the remaining Lines of this Account, to give the Reader the Substance of what the Person, who is now to die, declar'd to me.

John Addison , Condemn'd for several Robberies, viz. for assaulting and Robbing, on the QUEEN'S High-way, Mr. Matthew Beazley , Mr. William Winslow , Mr. Disney Sanniford , Mr. Robert Sherwood , and Mr. Joseph Ashton ; on the 30th of November, the 20th of December, and the 6th of February last. He confess'd, That he was guilty of all those Robberies, and of many more, which he had committed within these Two Years past.

He said, he was about 23 Years of age, born of very honest Parents, in the Parish of Lambeth ; That he had been for some time in the Sea and Land-service , but for the most part of his Life follow'd the Trade of a Butcher , to which he was brought up.

He lamented his Sinful Life; and the remembrance of his former Vices, wherein he had so much delighted, was now very grievous to him. He further said, That if he could, he would make Satisfaction to the Persons he had wrong'd; but That was not in his power. He pray'd GOD and them to forgive him, (though unworthy) for the sake of Christ.

This day he was taken out of Newgate ; and carried in a Cart to the Place of Execution; where I attended him for the last time, and having (according to my usual manner) Exhorted him, Pray'd for him, sung some Penitential Psalms with him, and made him rehearse the Apostles Creed, I recommended his Soul to GOD; and so left him to his private Devotions, for which he had some time allow'd him. Before I retired I did ask him, Whether he had any thing more to say, that might be useful for the World to hear or know: To which he answer'd, No: but desir'd the Prayers of all good People.

Then, a while after this, the Cart drew away, and he was turn'd off; he then mightily calling upon GOD in these, and the like Ejaculations: Lord, have Mercy upon me! Lord JESUS receive me! &c.

A PRAYER by him frequently used after his Condemnation.

O Lord, give me that true Repentance to which thou hast promised Mercy and Pardon: and accept my Repentance for thine infinite Mercy's sake, and the Merits of my Blessed Saviour, who died for Repenting Sinners.

O Work, by thy Grace, such a Love of Thee in my Heart, as may make me yet grieve more for my Sins.

Create in me a clean Heart, O God, and renew a right Spirit within me.

O Lord, one day is with Thee as a thousand years, O let thy mighty Spirit work in me now in this my last day, whatsoever thou see'st wanting, to fit me for thy Mercy and Acceptance.

Let it work in me all those Holy Dispositions of Mind, that may fit me for Heaven, and the Enjoyment of thy self.

This is a great thing, O Lord, that I ask, but not too great for thy Almighty Power: Speak the Word only, and I shall be clean. Grant this to me, O merciful Father, for thy dear Son's sake. Amen.

This is all the Account be given of this Dying son, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary ,

Friday, March 2. 1710/1711.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , who formerly lived at the Bible in Creed-Lane , is removed to the Bible and Ball in Ave-Mary-Lane near Ludgate , where all Booksellers and others may be furnisht with Bibles and Common-Prayers of all Sorts, with Cuts or without, Ruled or Unruled, Bound in Turky Leather or Plain. Mr. Strut's Cuts Curiously Engrav'd; also other fine Cuts fitted for all Sizes and Common-Prayers. The Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. The Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and French Common-Prayers. Tate and Brady's New Version of Psalms, with the New Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Statutes at large, in Three Volumes. Washington and Wingate's Abridgment of them. The Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, in Folio and Octavo. The New Translation of AEsops Fables. Also Bp. Beveridge's Works, in 5 vol. And Dean Stanhope on the Epistles and Gospels, in 4 vol. All which Books and Cuts are likewise sold by J. Baker in Mercers-Chapel

Lately publish'd for the Use of Schools,

Vocabularium Latiale; or, a Latin Vocabulary in two parts. The First being a Collection of the most usual and easie Latin words, whether primitive or derivative; with their signification in English, after the order of the Eight parts of Speech, giving a Specimen of each, and most naturally shewing the gender, increase, declension and motion of Nouns and Pronouns, with the Conjugation-Preterperfect Tense and Supine of Verbs both Simple and Compound. The Second, shewing the variation and declining of all the declinable parts, both regular an irregular. By Tho. Dyche , S chool-Master in London , Author of a new Spelling-book, entitul'd A Guide to the English Tongue. Printed fr S. Butler, at Bernard's-Inn-Gate, in Holbourn, J. Holland, near St. Paul's Church-yard, and A. Collins, at the Black-Boy in Fleet-street. Price 1 s.

Lately Publish'd the 6th Part of

A Help to History, or a Short Memorial of the most Weighty and Remarkable Matters of Fact and Passages Domestick and Foreign; useful either in Conversation at present, or History for the future: With an Account of the Birth, Death, Rise, Fall, &c. of Persons of Distinction at Home and Abroad. To come out every Three Months. Note, This 6th Part compleats the First Volume, with an Index, and General Title-page; Price of the whole Bound 2 s. Printed for T. Osborn in Gray's-Inn near the Walks, S. Butler at Bernard's-Inn-Gate in Holborn, W. Lewis in Russel-street Covent-Garden, and J. Morphew near Stanioners-Hall. Price 4 d.

Books Just Printed for SAM. BRISCOE .

1. The British Hudibras, in 5 parts, compleat; Being a Continuation of Mr. Butler's Hudibras, the 3d Edition, adorn'd with Cuts: Written by Mr. Ward. 2. Dr. Drakes Picture of a Favourite; or the Memoirs of the E. of Leicester. 3. Sir William Cavendish 's Memoirs of Cardinal Woolsey. 4. Memoirs of the Court of Scotland. 5. Memoirs of the Court of England. 6. Memoirs of the Duke of Oleance. 7. The Memoirs of the . of Warwick: the four last Written by the Countess D'Anois, Author of the Ladies Travels. 8. The Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , Serious Moral, Comical and Satyrical, in 3 vol. 8°, the third Edition, with a Supplement. Sold by J. Woodward in Scalding Alley near Stocks-Market, and J. Morphew near Stationer-Hall.

The Picture of a Church Militant; an Original, after the Modern manner. For the Use of St. Stephen's Chapel, and humbly inscrib'd to a Member of the Lower House of Convocation. By the Author of the Blackbird's Tale. Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall.

Next Week will be Publish'd,

All the Works of Lucian in 8vo, Translated from the Greek by Sir Henry Sheers , Walter Moyle , Esq ; Charles Blount , Esq; Mr. Atkins, Mr. Tho. Brown , Mr. Digby, Mr. Tate, Dr. Laurence Eachard , Mr. Sellers, Dr. Drake, Mr. Vernon, Col. Blount, Mr. Philips, and several other Persons of Learning and Quality. With the Life of Lucian, a Discourse of his Writings, and a Character of some of the present Translators. By the late famous John Dryden , Esq ; Sold as above.

A Grammar of the English Tongue, with Notes, giving the Grounds and Reason of Grammar in General, and the Art of English Numbers. All fitted to the Use of Gentlemen and Ladies, as well as of the Schools of Great Britain. Being the Foundation of an English Education. Printed for John Brightland , and Sold by Mr. D. Brown at Temple-bar, J. Walthoe in the Temple, and at his Shop in Stafford; J. and S. Sprint in Little-Britain; Mr. Taylor in Pater-noster-row; R. Smith at the Royal Exchange; H. Clements in St. Paul's Church-yard; T. Varnam and J. Osborn in Lombard-street; and other Booksellers of Great Britain and Ireland.

The Church of England Man's Vade Mecum; or a Pocket Companion for a Member of Parliament. Containing an Authentick List of all the Names of the Members of each Parliament from the year 1640, to the Restoration of King Charles II. With a Correct List of the present House of Lords and Commons; by which the Reader, by comparing Men and Things, may readily find who has, and who has not chang'd the Principles of his Ancestors. Printed for J. Baker in Pater-noster-row.

The Generous Surgeon; or Indigent Patient's Friend. Unfolding (for their Sakes chiefly) the Mystery of Venereal Cures, so as that both Sexes, with the Medicines and Directions prescrib'd, may safely and expeditiously Cure themselves of the most virulent Clap for 25 Shillings; worst Gleet or Weakness for 30 Shillings; and the most confirm'd Pox for 50 Shillings. But if the Cases be slight, for less. Without any further Charge or Advice, the least Sickness, Discovery, or Confinement. By a Surgeon. Sold by J. Baker in Pater-noster-row. Price stitch'd, Six-pence.

The Clergy-man's Advocate; or an Historical Account of the ill Treatment of the Church and the Clergy, from the beginning of the Reformation to this Time. Shewing, 1. The Necessity of Abolishing the First-fruits and Tenths, and making better Provision for the Parochial Clergy. 2. That the Poverty of the Clergy is the Occasion of their Contempt. 3. That the Contempt of the Clergy is the Occasion of the Decay of Piety. 4. That the Decay of Piety is the Cause of our Parties and Factions, which has long disturb'd our happy Constitution. To which is annex'd, part of the Bishop of Lincoln's Charge to the Clergy of his Diocess in his Triennial Visitation, begun at Leicester, June the first, 1709. Written by a Lay-hand, humbly to inform the Gentlemen of England of their Duty and Danger. Printed for A. Bettes-worth on London-bridge, and Sold by J. Baker in Pater-noster-row. Price One Shilling.

London Printed, and are to be sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-Hall.

