A full and true Account, of the Behaviours, Confessions, and last Dying Speeches of the Condemn'd Criminals, that were Executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 24th of May, 1700.

JOHN Shirly , alias Davis , 22 Years old, Condemn'd for Firing the House of Dr. Sloan; being examin'd said, that he was Descended of a good Family, that his Parents, who tenderly loved him, Educated him at School a considerable time, but growing Headstrong, he ran away from them, and Listed himself a Soldier , for several Years he served abroad in that Station, and at last, having got Acquaintance with the Surgeon of a Regiment, he pretended to practice that Art, which brought him in no small Profit; but being Viciously inclin'd, liv'd at such a rate, that his Incomes could not answer his unnecessary and exorbitant Expences, which caus'd him to rack his Invention, how to support his profuse way of Living; this made him listen to bad Advice, and to turn a deaf Ear to that wholsome Counsel, which they who knew his Parents frequently gave him. The great Enemy of Mankind provided some Accomplices for him, who having consum'd their Substance with riotous Living, were willing to undertake any wicked Action, that might support their craving Circumstances: To this Gang he willingly associated himself, and committed several Robberies and Burglaries, more than he could remember: At length they resolv'd to break open this House in Bloomsbury-Square , which they attempted in several Places, but could not effect; then they resolv'd to burn it; and accordingly one of them struck a Light, and cut a little Door into Splinters, then breaking the Glass and part of the Wood in the Window, set a Candle to it, which caus'd the Window to blaze: Their Design as he said, was to throw Stones at the upper Windows, to awaken the Family when the Fire had got a Head, and so under Pretence of helping them to carry away their best Goods, and Rob them of all that was valuable. I prest him very often to discover whether he was concern'd in that great Fire in Red-lion Fields , putting him in mind, that there is no denying or lessening his Sins before God, who was privy to all his Thoughts and Designs, and knows all his Actions, tho' never so secretly committed, and no human Eye saw him. But he still denyed that he was any ways concern'd in it, only that he was present when it was burning, and got a silver Candlestick, a Case of Pistols, and some other things. He did not seem at first so well affected with his Condition as could be wished; but afterwards he returned to a better Mind, and wisht that he had a longer space to live, that so he might testifie his Sincerity, by leading a better Life for the future.

Philip Wake , Convicted for the same, confest his Crime, and gave an account of it much after the same manner, only with this Adition, that Davis was the Projector of it, and encouraged them to do it, when they resolv'd to desist. He added, that he was an old Offender, had made several Resolutions to forsake his evil Courses, but as often broke them: His Indisposition did not permit him to speak much, but he seem'd very attentive to good Advice.

James Walters , Condemn'd for several Felonies: Was an Apprentice to a Merchant , but leading a dissolute debaucht Life, his Master turn'd him away; then he went to his old Companions, who prevail'd with him to go abroad with them, where he committed a great many base, notorious Actions. He complain'd of the tedious Confinement he underwent, and how trouble some it was to him, who was always a busie stirring Person: But he was put in mind that he shou'd by no means once fancy, that he must lie in that doleful Place, shut out from all Business, and condemn'd as it were to a state of Idleness; but that he should set himself with all his might, to mind the one thing necessary, the great Work of Repentance, and making his Peace with Almighty God; for this would cut out work enough for him, and of more Comfort and Profit to his Soul, than any other Employment which he had formerly been used to. He was also told, that he stood now upon the very brink of Eternity, and must shortly appear before the Tribunal of God, which is infinitely more terrible than that of any earthly Judge can be; therefore it became him, with all the seriousness that is possible, to prepare himself for so dreadful an Appearance; to which he reply'd, that he had a good Education, and understood these matters very well.

John Titt , 24 Years old, Convicted for Burglary. He serv'd his Master (who was a Waterman) very Faithfully, but being made free, he unfortunately met with some Acquaintance which entic'd him to Drink to excess, and so neglecting his lawful Calling, being reduc'd to want, was the more easily prevail'd with to commit this Fact, the only one of that Nature, (as he said) he ever was Guilty of. His Life of late was very irregular, addicted to Swearing, Lewdness, and Debauchery, for which he said he was exceeding sorrowful, and that his Vices were now as detestable in his sight, as before they seem'd pleasant.

John Hatchman , aged 15 Years, Convicted for the same, confest his Crime, and said that Titt meeting him in Southwark , made him Drunk, and then brought him along with them to break open the House. He denyed he ever was concern'd with such Persons any more, and Promises if he be Transported, to lead a better Life for the future.

John Cooper , Condemn'd for the same. He was seiz'd with the Jayl-Distemper, which is a violent Feaver, attended with a delirious Light-headedness, and so was not in a capacity to give any Account of himself.

Joseph Fisher , 48 Years old, Born in Cornwal , Condemn'd for Burglary, was a Seaman , and serv'd aboard in the Royal-Navy, and as he said, did

once a considerable piece of Service: But being addicted to evil Practices, and giving Reins to his Passions, and no Bounds to his Lusts, he followed such a wicked Course of Life, which brought him to the same unhappy Circumstances once before, being Condemn'd to Die. The terrors of Death extorted from him several Vows and Resolutions of living better, if it pleased God to restore him to his Liberty once more. But all his good Purposes prov'd abortive, for they never passed into Act; for being Pardoned by his Majesty's Clemency, he return'd to his former wicked Courses; and forsaking his lawful Wife, lived with other Women, who brought him into much Trouble. He behaved himself very sullen, would not confess his Crime, but endeavour'd to extenuate it.

Thomas Hixon , Convicted for Burglary confest his Crime, and seem'd very much concern'd for it, lamenting his unhappy Condition with a flood of Teas; and promising never to commit the same again if he were Transported. He was put in mind of the Reasons he had to suspect the sincerity of these good Purposes, and to remember the vast difference there is between things as they are only represented to us by our Fancies, and when they become actually and sensibly present to us. To which he reply'd, That he hoped God would for Christ's sake not despise his weak Resolutions, but enable him by his Grace to keep them, humbly beseeching him not to forsake him in this time of his greatest need of Comfort, but that he would be graciously pleased to be found of him at the Hour of Death and Day of Judgment, that God of Mercy and Love, which in himself he always is. He seem'd Penitent.

On Friday the 24th of May, these Persons were conveyed from Newgate to Tyburn in Carts. John Shirley , alias Davis , Philip Wake , John Titt , John Hatchman , John Cooper , Joseph Fisher , Thomas Hixon , and James Walters . And being tied up; John Shirley , confest that he did suffer deservedly, but that Wake was the Person who first perswaded him to attempt she breaking of the House by Fire. He denyed with several Asseverations, that he or any other to his Knowledge, were concern'd in the great Fire in Redlion Fields ; only that he hearing of it, came there with an intent to get what he could conveniently carry away. He seem'd terribly afraid of that Punishment which his Crimes deserved. Fear and trembling, said he, have seiz'd upon me, and an horrible Dread hath overwhelm'd me. Without is the Prospect of Death and Disgrace, and within is Guilt and Anguish; and tho' my Burden is intolerable, yet O good God! I cannot say, but it is infinitely just. 'Tis a most reasonable and righteous return for my daring Provocations of thy Justice; and much more for my vile abuses of thy Mercy and Patience. I must needs acquit and justifie thee, and have none to accuse but mine own self, for all my present Fears and Miseries. All my Life I have been sowing Wickedness, and am now brought to reap the Fruit thereof. He seem'd Penitent. Philip Wake , being indisposed, said but little: He owned himself an old Offender, who had formerly receiv'd Mercy, but would not forsake his evil Courses; he desired the Prayers of all good Persons, and Prayed God to make the great croud of Spectators the better by the sadness of such a sight. John Titt seem'd at first some what unconcern'd at his approaching End; but afterwards his Countenance changed, and he shed some Tears; confest his Crime, and desired the Prayers of all People. Joseph Fisher would not own his Crime, tho' the Evidence was possitive against him: He spent most of his time in quarreling with the Executioner, but afterwards desired all Persons to take Warning by his untimely End. James Walters confessed that he was guilty of the several Crimes he was charged with, that bad Company had such Influence on him, as to make him do those things which otherwise he had an aversion to. He Prayed very earnestly, and seem'd sensible of his State. John Hatchman wept very much, and confest his Crime. John Cooper , and Thomas Hixon said but little, but gave attention to the Exhortation that was made to them. They were allow'd some time for private Prayer, and were earnestly press'd to confess their Crimes, and take shame to themselves; which some complyed with, but others refused.

After that the Cart drew away, they were turned off.

Dated May 24th, 1700.

John Allen , Ordinary .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

B. Lilburn, that lately Lived on Ludgate-hill, next to the Kings Arms Tavern near Fleet-Bridge, now Lives at the Golden-Board, and Ball, near the Globe-Tavern, in little Moor-fields, near great Moor-gate, up one Pair of Stairs. Who maketh and selleth, (and has done above 16 Years) the Water for taking away the Freckels Pimples, Worms, and Morphw in the Face: With Elixir Salutis, Balsamum Vitae, Tinctura Vitae. Waters and Ointments for the Eyes, and Ointments for sore Nipples; Ointments for the Rickets, Burns, Scalds, Wounds, Aches, Strains, &c. Powders, Dentrifices, Elixirs, Essences, Oils, Spirits, &c. both for Ornament, and Curing most Distempers incident to Humane Bodies; where you may have Advice as well as Medicines, like wise Judgment upon Urine.

The Water for the Freckles, Pimples, &c. The Author has for some Years past, left with several for Sale; and now doth understand, they have been abused by Counterfeits; which to prevent for the future, doth desire those who have bought from them - and not found the Effects answer the Ends for which it is proposed, to acquaint her with it, and where they bought it - and likewise to take notice of the Seal, viz. The 3 Water-budgets, and B. L. on the top of the Seal. The Price of the half Pint-bottle 3s.

AT the farthest House on the Left-hand, in Blew-ball Court, in Salisbuy-Court, Feetstreet, (being the first Court on the Left hand over against Salisbury-Square) Gentlemen, &c. may have an Interest made to Invest them in Employments suitable to their several Qualities and Capacities. We have now these Places to dispose of, viz. 4 in the Country, 2 upwards of 100 l. per. An. good Perquisites for Life, 1 of 70 l. and 1 of 50 l. per An. Sallaries, the 2 first to be acted by Deputies, the others for Life; also in the City, viz. 2 in the Law for Life, valued at upwards of 200 l. per An. each, 1 of 1200 l. a Year, another of 700 l. per An. Sallary, good Perquisites, (in the Law, and for Life also) 3 Places of upwards of 100 l. per An. 5 Places of upwards of 60 l. per An. Sallaries, most for Life, and may be managed by Deputies; at the other end of the Town, 1 Place of 200 l. per An. 3 of upwards of 100 l. per An. with many other Places too long here to Insert, but we refer to our Bills published in most Coffeehouses. We have now an opportunity of serving several Persons, who Write a good Hand, and can give Security. We Buy and Sell Estates, Houses, Ground-Rents, &c. procure Money on good Security &c. We speedily and faithfully Sollicite all sorts of Causes depending in the Courts of Law and Equity, Treasury, Navy-Office, &c. For the Satisfaction of the Publick, we think fit to add, that the Original Undertaker of this Business in England was Mr. A. C. Deceased, by whom and us (some of us being near Relations of the Mr. C.) it has been successfully Managed upwards of 30 Years; all other Bills pretending to our Business not being of a Years standing. Our chief Undertaker now is a Person of Quality, well known to many of the principal Nobility and Gentry, of this Kingdom.

LONDON. Printed for E. Mallet, at the Hat and Hawk in Bride-lane.

