THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words, OF MALEFACTORS, Who was Executed at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 12th of July, 1742.

BEING THE FOURTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Sir Robert Godschall , Knt .

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

Number IV. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir ROBERT GODSCHALL , Knight, Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice LEE; the Right Honourable Mr. Baron REYNOLDS; the Honourable Sir JOHN STRANGE , Knt. Recorder ; and the Right Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and Others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Monday, the 28th, 29th, 30th of April, and 1st and 3d of May, in the fifteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. Samuel Wood , John Carpenter , Robert Rhodes , Edward Larrat , John Barnham , alias Burnham , Richard Cooley , and Charles Newton , and one Woman, viz. Elizabeth Powell , were by the Jury found guilty of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death. Also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir ROBERT GODSCHALL , Knight, Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Honourable Mr. Justice CHAPPLE; the Honourable Mr. Baron ABNEY; the Honourable Mr. Justice BURNET; the Right Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder, and Others his Majesty's Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Thursday and Friday the 3d and 4th of June, in the fifteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Two Men, viz. Thomas Miller , and Michael Grant , were, by the Jury found guilty of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were earnestly exhorted to prepare themselves by a true and sincere Repentance, for that Change so near approaching, in order to which they were instructed in the Nature of true Repentance, that it consists in not only a penitential Sorrow for Sins committed in an absolute Resolution and determining to lead a new Life, to loth and abhor themselves for what they had done; but in asking with unfeigned Lips Pardon of God Almighty, to throw themselves before the Throne of Grace, and incessantly by fervent Prayer, to

implore Forgiveness and Mercy from that God who is just and merciful, whom they had so much offended.

Three of them, viz. Burnham, Miller, and Grant, having been guilty of the horrid Sin of Murder, I laid before them the heinousness of that Crime, how dishonourable it is to encroach upon the divine Prerogative of God, who is the Sovereign Lord of Life and Death: The Lord giveth, and the Lord taketh away, says the Psalmist, and blessed be the Name of the Lord. I am the Lord, that is my Name, and my Glory will I not give to another, neither my Praises to graven Images. Isaiah xlii. 8. To me belongeth Vengeance and Recompense, Deut. xxxii. 35. From these, and such - like Texts of Scripture, I proceed to shew 'em the unjustness of their Crimes, how injurious to our Neighbour it is, to take away that Life 'tis not in our Power ever to restore or to make any amends for.

I also instructed them from the Holy Scripture in the Nature, End and Design of the Holy Sacrament, The Cup of Blessing, which we bless, is it not the Communion of the Blood of Christ? The Bread which we break, is it not the Communion of the Body of Christ, 1 Cor. x. 16, 17. And they continued stedfastly in the Apostles Doctrine and Fellowship, and in breaking of Bread, and in Prayers, Acts. ii. 42.

They were all very much Subject to Illness; but when their Health permitted, were pretty constant in their Attendance at Chapple, Samuel Wood , at his own Request (notwithstanding his being ill) was supported by one of the Keepers, to and from Chapple, and behaved in a very decent becoming Manner; Elizabeth Powell , in the General, behaved well, though she was sometimes obliged to have a little sharp Reproof for indecent Carriage; John Carpenter , when well, behaved penitently; Robert Rhodes , behaved decently, but grew so sick, he was not able to attend nor speak; Edward Larrat was poor and ignorant, but behaved quietly; John Burnham , though of the Romish Persuasion , when well, attended Chappel, but was privately visited by one of his own Profession; Richard Cooley , a Boy 14 Years of Age, constantly attended, and made regular Responses; Charles Newton , though very Sick, Poor, Naked and Ignorant, yet generally crawled up to attend divine Service; Thomas Miller , and Michael Grant , behaved indifferently well; but not with that deep Concern; their heinous Crimes might call for; after the second Sessions, all of them recovered a pretty good State of Health, through the Care of a well disposed Christian, who visited 'em, and gave 'em proper Necessaries to relieve and comfort 'em, and they attended punctually at Chapple.

Monday July 5, Report was made to his Majesty in Council of the Ten Malefactors lying under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate, when Edward Larrat of Stepney , for stealing a Weather Sheep, value 40 s. the Property of Thomas Wigans , April 11, Elizabeth Powel of St. Martins in the Fields , for stealing a laced Mob, value 1 l. 2 Linnen Aprons, value 4 s. a Silk Handkerchief, value 2 s. a Case of Instruments, value 4 s. 18 Portugal Pieces, value 43 l. 4 s. a 2 Guinea Piece, 9 Guineas, and 15 s the Goods of Martha Hammers in her Dwelling-House, March 29, Richard Cooley a Boy, and Charles Newton , for breaking and entering the Dwelling-House of Nicholas Faulcon , between 11 and one in the Night, and stealing a Copper Saucepan, a Stew-pan, a Pottage-pot and Cover, a Brass Boyler, 2 large Pewter Dishes, and 7 Pewter Plates, March 30, received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for Transportation, the other six, viz. Samuel Wood , John Carpenter , Robert Rhodes , John Burnham or Barnham , Thomas Miller and Michael Grant were ordered for Execut; but on Thursday a Reprieve came down to Newgate for Wood for Transportation for 7 Years.

John Burnham was indicted for that he not having the Fear of God before his Eyes, &c. on Henry Oliver feloniously, wilfully, &c. did make an Assault, and with a certain Knife made of Iron and Steal, &c. the right Eye of the said Oliver did strike and cut, giving him one mortal Wound of the Length of half an Inch, and Depth of 3 Inches, of which he instantly died, March 7.

He was likewise charged by Virtue of the Coroner's Inquest for the said Murder.

1. John Burnham or Barnham , 23 Years of Age, was born in Dublin of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, in Reading and Writing, and brought him up in the Romish Way , his Mother dyed when he was between 8 and 9 Years of Age, his Father who

was a Silk Weaver, bound him Apprentice to himself, and he serv'd him honestly, and afterwards worked Journey-Work . Some Years ago his Father came to London , and left John behind him in Dublin , and when he was settled there he sent for him up, and John work'd Journey-work till he became acquainted with a Lady of the Town whom he married, and whom he much reflected on for her not coming near him during his Confinement. He was of an unsettled Temper, loved roving better than working, had been several Times to Ireland and back again; the last Time he went he was made pretty much fuddl'd on his Return, and lost every Rag of his Cloaths (except what he had on his Back.)

As to the Murder for which he died, he own'd himself to have have been present at the Time, but absolutely denied giving the fatal Blow, laying it on one Fateface a Companion of his, since transported for Felony, and related his Story as follows,

" It has been alledged (says he) that I had a " Broom-stick in on Hand, and a Knife or Dagger in t'other; but I declare I had no Weapon " whatsoever, except a small Stick which a Press " Gang coming along took from me and knock'd " me down, about which Time Oliver the Black, " who had been drinking at the Ship Alehouse " the Corner of Shorter street, in Cable street , " near Wellclose-Square , was in the Street quarrelling and bawling out against some Women " who he said had pck'd his Pocket. When I " and my Companion, with some others, (going " to rescue my Wife out of the Hands of a " Constable who had taken her up for stealing a " Watch) came by, and Words arising, Blows " ensued, and I and the Black fought, but my " Companion gave him the Blow on his Eye, " which occasioned his Death."

So far is the Account given by Burnham himself, but how true, or how much to be depended on, is mighty easy to be seen by the strong Evidence against him at his Trial, when it was plainly prov'd, that Burnham with either a Knife or Dagger, struck the Deceased in the Face, and redoubling his Blow, the Black fell to the Ground and never spoke more. The first of the Wounds which was the mortal one, was in the Socket of the Eye, the other of no Signification, was on the Right Shoulder; 'tis true, the Black had in quarrelling with the Women before Burnham struck him, been scratch'd in the Face a little, but not to hurt him. After the Fact was done, Burnham ran away, and was taken hid under the Bench of a Summer-house in a Garden, and being charged with having murder'd the Black Man, he said he had not, and cried out, What have I done? On his making the above Profession of his Innocence, it was natural to ask him, why he flew for it if he knew himself not guilty? his Answer was, because he was afraid of the Press-Gang.

On his being guilty of such barefaced Equivocation, I set before him in as strong a Light as the Scripture itself could furnish (and surely there can be no stronger!) how foolish, how sinful it was to make a Mock of God, and to deceive his own Soul, till at length he became more calm, wept bitterly, and appeared penitent. He declared he believed in Christ, and was in Peace with all Men, and died in the Romish Communion.

Thomas Miller of Twickenham , was indicted for that he not having the Fear of God before him, but being mov'd by the Instigation of the Devil, did assault Sarah his Wife , giving her several mortal Blows and Bruise, upon her Head, and divers other Parts of her Body, Dec. 6. of which said mortal Bruises she languished till the 19th of Dec. and then died.

He was a 2d Time indicted on the Coroner's Inquest.

2. Thomas Miller , near 50 Years of Age, was born in Warwickshire of honest Parents, who gave him good Education, &c. with whom he lived, and followed their Business of Farming , driving the Teams, &c. till he went into the Service of divers Gentlemen in Leicestershire , and other Places, in the Station of either Coachman or Carter , and in all his Places borea good Character. When he was in the 25th Year of his Age he came to London , thinking to better his Fortune, and got into the Service of several Gentlemen, till he married, and then he took a Farm of 60 l. a Year, which Business he followed as well as selling Spirituous Liquors about the Countries. He had several Children by the De

ceased, two of which (both Girls) are now living, one in the Workhouse, the other with an Uncle and Aunt of theirs. On that Brother and Sister he used strongly to reflect, as the Cause of bringing him to this fatal End, for the Sake as he said of his Goods, tho' it was prov'd he was indebted to his Brother more than twice the Value of them; he endeavour'd to extenuate his Guilt, by saying 'twas Convulsion Fits only that caused his Wife's Death, notwithstanding it being so plainly prov'd he murder'd her; every Circumstance was so strong against him, that I was surprized he should even attempt an Excuse, 1st, The Evidence of the Woman who saw him knock her down with his Fist, then fetch a Club and give her with it such a Blow on the Head as to make the Blood gush out from her Nose, Mouth, Ears and Eyes. 2d, The Declaration of his Wife as a dying Woman, that after he had thus knock'd her down, he stamp'd upon her Breast, in a violent manner. And lastly, The Testimony of the Surgeon, that this Stamping was the Cause of her Death. I say, after all these concurring material Circumstances I blam'd him, and laid before him the Wickedness of his making any Shadow of an Excuse, and advised him to humble himself before Almighty God, to confess freely his Fault if he hoped for any free Forgiveness, all which had no very great Effect on him, for tho' he appeared a little Penitent, yet I fear his Sorrow and Repentance was not equal to the Greatness of his Crime; he behaved generally quiet, but with somewhat of a moroseness in his Temper not easily to be disguised. He said he repented of his Sins, believed in Christ, and died in Peace with all Men.

Michael Grant of London Labourer, was indicted for that he not having the Fear of God before his Eyes, but being moved by the Instigation of the Devil of his own Malice and Fore-thought, did willfully make an Assault on Alice his Wife , and with a clasped Knife gave her one mortal Wound, the Depth of 4 Inches in the Belly, of which Wound she instantly died, May 23.

He was a 2d Time indicted on the Coroner's Inquest for the said Murder.

3. Michal Grant , 30 Years of Age, was born in Spittle-fields , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education in Reading and Writing, and Instructions in the Principles and Duties of the Christian Religion, and when he was of Age his Father who was a Weaver bound him Apprentice to the same Business , and Michael serv'd his Time honestly, and afterwards wrought Journey-work , he was generally reckoned a pretty good Hand, had 3 Looms of his own, and was well respected by the different Masters he work'd for.

About a 12 Month ago he became acquainted with the Deceased, by picking her up in the Streets, and lived with her as Man and Wife till the fatal Accident. Grant and she had frequent Quarrels, and often Fightings, about Alice going abroad, picking up Men in the Streets, and lying out all Night, Whoring and Thieving, for she stuck at nothing of that sort, and had been an old Street-Walker , tho' a young Woman; in their Quarrels Murder was frequently threatened on both Sides, You Bitch I'll murder you, and You Dog I'll murder you, were Epithets more frequent in their Mouths than any Thing else, which at last prov'd but too true, for on Sunday May 23, being about 6 or 7 Days after Michael had discarded her, she came to his Room, and Words arising, he stabb'd her to the Heart, and she instantly dropp'd down dead. After he had committed the Fact he flung away the Knife, and said, Lord! Lord! what have I done! and would then have given a thousand Worlds were they in his Possession to have recalled her, but 'twas too late, which ought (and Lord of his infinite Mercy grant it may) be a Warning to all those who are the least inclinable to Passion, especially such whose Blows are almost as quick as their Words; my Advice to such is to check themselves only one Moment whenever Passion rises too high, and reflect, that one unlucky Blow is frequently the Loss of two Lives. I say, one Moment's Reflection might perhaps save an Age of Pain. I do not mean in this World only, but in that World (far more to be dreaded by such Wretches) which is to come, an Hereafter that has no Period, an Eternity of Misery, and ten thousand Millions of Ages of Pain. Even admit that Blows should not prove fatal, yet nothing so strongly shews a pusilanimous, mean, cowardly Temper in a Man than his striking a Woman, who is allowed to be the weaker Vessel. It ever was, and I am of Opinion it ever will be looked on as the Mark of a cowardly dastard Temper, even in the brute Creation, 'tis very rare to see

Male and Female of any Species fight, but always Male against Male, and Female against Female.

Michal Grant was of a morose sullen Temper, could hardly even under his dismal Circumstances vouchsafe a civil Answer to any of his Fellow Prisoners. However he appeared deeply affected, seemed very penitent, said he believed in Christ our only Saviour, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

Robert Rhodes , was indicted for that he, after the 24th of June 1736, viz. Sept 3 made and forged and did willingly act and assist in forging and making a certain Paper, partly printed, and partly written, sign'd with the Name of John Thompson , which said Paper-Writing is contained in the Words and Figures following, viz.

In the Name of God, Amen. I John Thompson , of the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields, in the County of Middlesex , Mariner , being in bodily Health, and of sound and disposing Mind and Memory, considering the Perils and Danger of the Seas, and uncertainties of this transitory Life, do, for avoiding Cantroversies, First, I recommend my Soul to God who gave it, and my Body to the Earth or Sea, as it please God. As for, and concerning all my Worldly Goods, I dispose of them as followeth. I give to my Friend Robert Rhodes , all my Wages, Sum and Sums of Money, Goods, Chattels and Tenements whatsoever, as shall be any Way due, owing and belonging to me at the Time of my Decease. I give, devise and bequeath the same to my Friend Robert Rhodes aforesaid, and I do hereby nominate and appoint him to be my lawful Executor, revoking all former Wills; and I do ordain and ratify these Presents to be my only last Will and Testament. In witness whereof I have set my Hand and Seal, the 6th of Sept. 1736, in the 10th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

John Thompson .

Sign'd, Sealed, published and declared in the Presence of

Mary Sempson . John Williams . William Davis .

He was farther charged for uttering and publishing the same, knowing it to be false, forged, and counterfeit.

4. Robert Rhodes , 35 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Yorkshire , who educated him to Read, Write, and cast Accompts, fit for Business, and likewise instructed him in the Principles of Religion. When he was of Age he was put Apprentice to a Glasier , and serv'd his Time honestly, and after married a Wife, by whom he had some Children, which are all dead; he left his Wife and came to London , and she engaged herself in a Lady's Service, with whom she travelled to Holland, Flanders, France, and other foreign Parts, and was abroad some Years. Robert being at London , pretended that he believed his Wife to be dead, and being desirous of a Change, he married another at London , and directly took a Cheesemonger's Shop in St. Andrew street near the Seven Dials , and lived there several Years in good Reputation, and had several Children by her, which are all dead. But after some Time Rhodes's Character failing him, he removed from the Seven Dials , and leaving this 2d Wife, lived with his first Wife (who was returned from Abroad) on Tower Hill , and still followed the Cheesemonger's Business , but with little or no Success. After his living sometime by the 7 Dials , he was made Constable and Headborough , which was the beginning of his commencing Rogue, for by his Office being obliged to take up several Thieves, and thereby becoming acquainted with others, he turned Thief-Catcher , and on his Evidence several were convicted, and some executed. One Baker a Lawyer, on whom he swore a Street-Robbery, called him perjured murdering Rascal. This Baker with great Difficulty saved his Life at the Old-Bailey, tho' he lost it afterwards, for being sentenced to Transportation, he died on Board a Ship in his Passage to America. Rhodes being asked in particular about this Affair, prevaricated very much, tho' there appear'd thro' all his Prevarications some Shew of Guilt. He offered on Condition his Life might be saved, to inform against several Persons, whom he and his Wife knew to be guilty of forging Sailors Wills, but his Character not being sufficiently approv'd of, and that the innocent might not suffer for the guilty, 'twas refused. After which he twice

attempted to Escape out of Newgate , but was prevented. He seemed in great Hopes, and pretty confident of a Reprieve, which made him more neglectful than he should, or ought to have been: But after the Dead-Warrant came down, and he saw himself included, he changed his Tone, and the confident Face was now turned to a mournful one, and he desired the Sacrament might be given him with the rest, declared he believ'd in Christ, repented of all his Sins, and forgave all, as he expected forgiveness from God.

John Carpenter , of Harmonsworth , was indicted for stealing two Weather Sheep, value 30 s. the Property of Isaac Singer , Jan. 9.

5. John Carpenter , 23 Years of Age, was born at Staines , in Middlesex , his Father, who kept the Sign of the Black-Boy , took Care of his Son John's Education, by sending him to School to the Rev. Mr. Broad at Staines , where he was taught to read and write, as well as instructed in the Duties of the Christian Religion; when old enough, he used frequently to assist his Father (who became blind the last ten Years of his Life) in drawing Beer , &c. Work'd in the Day with his Uncle, a Carpenter and Joiner at Tharpe , and in the Evening, assisted his Parent, and seemed very industrious 'till the Death of his Father, which happened about three Years ago, then John, after working at Kensington , Clapham , Deptford , and some other Places, became idle and associated himself with a Company of vile People, with whom he committed divers Enormities. The Fact for which he died, was done in Company with one Pig, who was condemned, but was reprieved for Transportation, Capenter at the same Time made his Escape, and went down to Portsmouth with a View of enterring on Board some of his Majesty's Ships, but having never been at Sea, was refused, and though he was twice pressed in his Return to London, he was let go after Examination; when he arrived at London , he went to an Acquaintance of his, a Glazier, in New-Gravel-Lane , and was there seized, committed to Newgate and condemed.

He was a married Man, and his Wife used to visit him while under his Confinement.

'Tis Remarkable, that this John Carpenter is the first Person who suffered for this Crime, since 'twas made capital by Act of Parliament.

He said, he did not know the Crime he committed was punishable with Death; but own'd he had been a wicked Sinner, very justly deserved Death, declared his Faith in Christ Jesus, repented heartily of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

SUNDAY Evening they all very devoutly received the blessed Sacrament in the Chapple; Monday Morning they were carried in two Carts to the Place of Execution; in the first Cart were Robert Rhodes , Michael Grant , and John Carpenter , in the second, Thomas Millar , and John Burnham . On Saturday the 10th Instant, two Gentlemen came to Newgate to ask Rhodes about some People he had mentioned o have been concerned in forging Sailors Ws, when he confirmed what he had said before, and mentioned several others, particularly a Person and his Wife who lived by that Practice, and went in a genteel Manner: the Wife he says, always carried a Purse of 50 or 60 Guineas about her, hid under her Arm, and declared also on the Words of a dying Man, that he knew for some Years, that there had been 5 or 600 Pound per Month received at the Pay Office, by e Sale of these forged Testaments: one of Rhodes's Wives, i. e. his first Wife, is now in the Gatehouse Westminster, where she was sent in order to make good the Informations she and Rhodes had given, it being strongly suspected 'twas only done with a View of saving his Life, it being notoriously known, that in the Case of swearing against Tims, Baker and others, Rhodes had been a most wicked vile Man, and went to the Gallows seeming unlamented. Carpenter had nothing to add to his former Confessions; Burnham owned his being in the Mob or Riot, but not that he gave the fatal Blow to the Black, still laying it on his Companion Fat face, he behaved well and was penitent; Grant owned himself to have been a wicked young Man, that he committed the Murder, and suffered deservedly; Miller would not own the Murder of his Wife plainly, though sworn so positively against him by an Eye-witness. After singing the Lamentation of a Sinner, they all went of the Stage, crying out, God be merciful to us, for Christ's Sake, Lord Jesus receive our Spirits.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

N. B There was the greatest Croud of People both by the Way, and at the Place of Execution, that has been known, supposed to be out of Curiosity, to see so wicked a Man as Rhodes.

APPENDIX.

An ACCOUNT of THOMAS MILLER , who was Executed for the Murder of his Wife Sarah Miller , taken from his own Mouth, some few Days before his Execution.

PASSION, when it once gains an Ascendant over our Minds, is often more fatal to us, than the most deliberate Course of Vice could be; on every little start, it throws us from the Paths of Reason, and hurries us in one Moment, into Acts more wicked and more dangerous, than we could at any other Time, suffer to enter our Imaginations. As Anger is justly said to be a short Madness, so, while the Frenzy is upon us, Blood is shed as easily as Water, and the Mind is so filled with Fury, that there is no Room left for Compassion.

There cannot be a stronger Proof of what have been observ'd, than in the unhappy End of this Man, for the barbarous Murder of his Wife Sarah Miller .

Thomas Miller , fifty Years of Age, was born at a Place called Spentall Stry , near Ostry in Warwickshire , his Father was formerly a Weaver and Comb-Maker; but left off that Business and turn'd Farmer; he was put to a Free-School at Appleby in Leicestershire , and brought up to Reading, Writing and Accounts, under Mr. Weed, who was Head-Master of the above School; he continued there sometime, 'till grown a sturdy Lad, and then return'd Home to his Father, work'd in his Farming Business, and sometimes drove his Team to Derby , and to Northampton , till he was twenty five Years of Age; then took it into his Head to come for London , where he had not been long, before he was hired to live with Mr. Crow, a Cabinet maker in Gracechurch-street , where he continued about a Year and a half; after that, was hired as a Servant to 'Squire Norris of Hackney , whom he attended to Holland , and in about three Weeks, travelled above 500 Miles, and saw most of the Curiosities in Rotterdam , Amsterdam , Dunkirk , &c. He liv'd about half a Year with this Gentleman, and was discharged; he was sometime after hired as a Servant in the Capacity of what they call odd Man , at the Rate of 8 l. 15 s. per Ann. to Mr. Marlow, of Eltham in Kent , from whom (after living there three Quarters of a Year) he was discharged at a Moments Warning, and a Months Wages paid him, on a violent Suspicion that he was going to contract Matrimony with Mr. M - 's Daughter Jenny; then went to work with Old Hack the Butcher, at Greenwich , about a Month; and lastly, lived with Sir Philip Hall , of Upton , where he became acquainted with his deceased Wife, whose Maiden Name was Sarah Wiggs , born near Watford , she lived Fellow- Servant with him, whom after some Courtship he married.

When Miller was married, he quitted Service, and began to deal for himself as a Duffer *; in which Employ he picked up a comfortable Livelyhood, and by Degrees, hired Warehouses in different Parts of the Countries, till he became a profess'd Dealer , and got acquainted with several Gangs of Smugglers, of whom he bought Brandies, and as it was strongly suspected, sometimes help'd to smuggle 'em too; he generally dealt pretty safe, for his Manner was, when he had got a Parcel of Brandies, &c. o take Care and lodge 'em in proper Quantities in his different Warehouses, and then come to London , to buy of a Distiller, such a Quantity as he thought fit, with which he always took Care to have a Permit, which served him at every Place to blind the Excise-Officers; for the Permit of Course served for the Goods bought in London , which he would dispose off before he came away; then again it served him at his own House, which*

Duffing is buying Spirituous Liquors from the Still and hawking 'em about, making People imagine 'em to be fine genuine Liquor, which they had smuggled, and to make it appear more like run Goods, they frequently rub the Head of the Cask over with Sand, and swear to you they have just dug it out of the Ballast of the Ship.

was a Place called Hammock , about a Mile from Hounslow , then at Shepperton , and so on at every different Place wherever he came; notwithstanding which, he frequently had Excursions with the Excise-Officers, who often took away his Cargo, which sometimes, by throwing a Petition into the Excise-Office, he got again, and sometimes lost, according to the Merits of the Cause, and he well knew when it would bear, and when it would not: By this Time, he became so well known among the Riding-Officers, that he was more narrowly watch'd; and notwithstanding his being very industrious, riding in the Night with his Goods, &c. he was sometimes catch'd and lost Horse and Goods too.

The Excise-Officers being one Day out on an Information of some Smugglers being at Chertsey, happened to meet with Miller, with some Goods, which they seized, Horse and all, and charg'd him with being a Smuggler himself, which he strongly denied, on which they insisted upon it, and charged him in the King's Name, that to clear himself, he should assist in taking the Smugglers; and accordingly they provided him, as well as themselves, with Pistols, &c. and immediately set out, and travelled up and down to different Places. About twelve o'Clock at Night they heard the trampling of Horses, and Miller was ordered up a Lane, where he met a Man riding down, who immediately struck at Miller, with somewhat he had in his Hand, and cut him in the Cheek quite to the Bone. Miller directly fired at him, and shot him dead upon the Spot, the Bullets and Slugs which went quite through a Great Coat, two Waistcoats, and Shirt, were afterwards taken out of his Body; the Man's Name was Drew. Miller was taken up on this Account, and try'd at Kingston Assizes for Murder, and was actually condemned; but was afterwards pardoned: 'tis said also, that in a Skirmish he had another Time, he cut a Man's Hand off.

After his Receiving a Pardon, he paid four Guineas for his Fees, and was discharged; he went Home to his Wife at Hammock , where he had a House prettily furnished, part of which he let out in Lodgings ; and being fearful of following his own Business for some time, and it being a proper Season of the Year, he went a Hopping, by which he earn'd 9 s. a Week for Weeks, together; his Wife went with him one Week and no more, for she (he says) could make but little of it.

From Hammock , they returned to a House upon Twickenham-Common , which was the Place where the Fact (for which he suffer'd) was done, which was in the following Manner. Saturday, December the 5th last, Miller had been to London to Newtoner's lane for some Money, and came back next Morning; and his Wife and he had Words about some Turneps, 'till by degrees he grew into a violent Rage, and took up a Club, knock'd her down, and beat her over the Head and Body in such a Manner, that she bled plentifully at her Nose, Ears, Eyes and Mouth, and not content with that alone, he stampt upon her Body and bruised her to such a violent Degree, that she languished till the 19th and then dyed; he has had seven Children by her, two of which are now living.

The following is the Account of MICHAEL GRANT , taken from his own Mouth some few Days before his Execution.

MICHAEL Grant , twenty-five Years of Age, was born in Spittle-Fields , of honest, poor Parents, his Mother dying when he was but two Years old, and his Father being abroad in the Guards, he was brought up, and instructed in the Duties of the Christian Religion, and put to proper Schools to learn to read and write, &c. by his Grandfather and Grandmother, with whom he lived, and followed their Business, which was that of a Weaver , till he was nineteen, then work'd for several Masters, and behaved with Honesty and Integrity to them all; he worked about ten Weeks for Mr. Heath, in Hare-street , Spittle-Fields , at which Time his Grandfather John Grant dying, he went home and work'd for his Grandmother, till a Dispute arising about his Wages, he left her, and went to Mr. Andrew's, in Duke-street , Spittle-Fields , with whom he staid

about eleven Months: At that Time, through the Persuasion of a young Man of his Acquaintance, one Peter Crippin , he had a very great Inclination to go to Sea, and accordingly they both went together to enter, but Michael not being well versed in the Business of a Sailor, they refused him, though they took his Companion, on his return Home, his Master ordered him to finish his Loom, and then discharged him; after which he work'd for Mr. Lee, in Spittle-Yard , about ten Months; and being discharged there, he work'd at the Water-side, rolling Hogsheads , and doing any Business he could get himself employed about, 'till meeting one Manika, an Acquintance of his, and enquiring of him for a Place, e (knowing Michael o be a good Workman) got him to be employed by Mr. Plea, in Artillery-Lane , who died by that Time Michael had work'd three Pieces; the last Master he work'd for, was Mr. Beckett, to whom he had carried home a Piece of Work but the Day before this unhappy Affair happened.

The Manner of his becoming acquainted with the Deceased, whose Name he says was Alice Pedder , was as follows: Going one Night through Spittle-yard , in order to go to his Lodgings in King-street , at one Mr. Gerrard's, where he had lodg'd between two and three Years; he met her, and pick'd her up, and went with her to one Faro's, in Skinner-street , where he staid with her 'till between 12 and 1, and then parted, with a Promise to meet her again the next Day, at the same Place; but did not go, nor saw her any more, 'till about ten Days after, when he met her again walking the Streets , which Occupation he says, she had followed ever since she was 13 or 14 Years of Age, which was near 17 Years, for when she died, she was about thirty; he then went with her to an Ale-house in Bishopsgate-street , and staid with her about three Hours, and again parted.

He met her afterwards divers Times, at different Places, 'till at length, one Monday, about a Twelvemonth ago, being pretty much fuddled, she over-persuaded him to move his Things from his Lodgings, and live with her, which he complyed with, and they cohabited together as Man and Wife (though he never was married) till the Time he turn'd her out of Doors; she had been married to three Husbands, one of whom is still alive, and has lived as a Wife with five other Men. They kept a Sort of a Gin Shop in Ship-Yard , Bishopsgate-Street , the Management of which she would frequently leave to Grant, and be out walking the Streets all Night, which occasioned many bitter Quarrels between them.

About ten Days before the fatal Accident, Grant had been out all Day with one John Southern , a Person whom he always (on account of the great Likeness there was between them) called Father, and coming home between eleven and twelve at Night, he found that Alice and another Woman had pick'd up a Man, and brought him to their Lodging, though the Man was gone before Grant came home; yet finding her to be flush of Money, and she telling him that the next Morning she would fetch some Things out of Pawn, he insisted on knowing how she came by that Money, which at last she unwillingly confess'd, and they had a severe Quarrel, and he determined then to turn her away, and accordingly the Sunday following, after he and she and his Grandmother had dined on a Breast of Veal, he fairly turn'd her out of Doors, and charged her never to come there any more; and though she promised faithfully never to do the like again, yet he was resolutely determined entirely to forsake her, and never to have any more to say to her; the next Night she came again, and made a very great Noise and uproar, and threw the Things about, and he turn'd her away again, and saw her no more 'till the Sunday following, which was the Day the Fact was done.

Sunday, May 23d, after Dinner, Grant being a little in Liquor, laid himself down to sleep, and was awaked by two Men knocking at the Door for a Dram; he got up and let them in, and was going to serve them, when she came in a furious Passion, and began to take the Things off the Shelf, and she saw a Coffee-cup, and said it was hers, and swore she would have it; Grant swore she should not; then she swore again she would, and with that, Grant gave her three or

four Blows on the Face, and said, if she would not lay it down, it should be the worse for her, and then beat her very much; with that she pulled a little Knife out of her Pocket, and swore she would kill him, or be killed; she did not offer to open the Knife, but put it into her Pocket again: With that, Grant replied, that is what I wanted, and I'll begin first; Grant then pulled out of his Pocket, a large Clasp Buckshorn Handle Knife, and swore if she would not begin first, he would. Whereupon, Grant run upto her, and thrust it intoher Breast as far as it would go; upon which, she cryed out, God Almighty forgive him, for I do, and she spoke no more, and she expired in about fifteen Minutes.

The Deceased Alice Pedder , was sometime since sent to Newgate , on Suspicion of being concerned in robbing the Bristol-mail; but it being prov'd, that she found the Letters, taken upon her, in Moorfields , she was discharged; at this Time, she lived with one Richard Burton , with whom she was tried at the Old-Bailey for robbing a Man in Bishopsgate street of 15 Guineas, and they were both acquitted; after which, Burton went to Sea , and she followed the Practice of walking the Streets , seeking her Prey. If she happened to see a Man in Liquor, he was a sure Mark, for she certainly got his Money and Watch too (if he had any) before she left him. This was her Method of Life, both before she became acquainted with Grant and since, Grant was no Stranger to it, he would often reprove her, and tell her the Consequence of such Ways; but it had no Effect on her, she still went on; he always refused to have any Thing to do with her ill-gotten Goods, and frequently determined to part, and she as frequently staggered those Determinations by her Promises of Amendment. 'Tis not above six Months ago, that Grant and she had a severe Quarrel, on Account of her vile Practices, and he threaten'd to turn her away, and she promised to amend, and the very next Day, meeting the above-named Burton, just returned from Sea, she went and staid with him 3 or 4 Nights; Grant then absolutely refused her Admittance, bidding her return from whence she came; but a Shower of Tears, a thousand Protestations, Wishes and Promises, together with falling down on her Knees, and calling him her dear, dear Grant, soon melted his Heart, altered his Resolutions, and he again took her in.

The following Verses was sent to GRANT (who murder'd his Wife) by one of the Followers of Mr. Whitefield.

O Lord! Turn thou thine Eye to me a Miserable Sinner.

I.

DEPTH of Mercy, can there be

Mercy still reserv'd for me?

Can my God his Wrath forbear?

Me the Chief of Sinners Spare.

II.

I have long withstood his Grace,

Long provok'd him to his Face,

Would not hearken to his Calls,

Griev'd him by a Thousand Falls.

III.

I my Master have deny'd,

I afresh have Crucify'd,

Oft' prophain'd his Hallowed Name,

Put him to an open Shame.

IV.

I have spilt his precious Blood;

Trampled on the Son of God:

Filld with Pangs unspeakable!

I! and yet am not in Hell.

V.

Lo, I cumber still the Ground;

Lo, an Advocate is found:

Hasten not to cut him down?

Let his Barren Soul alone.

VI.

Jesus Speaks and Pleads his Blood,

He disarms the Wrath of God:

Now my Father's Bowels move?

VII.

Justice Lingers into Love.

VII.

Kindled his Relentings are,

Me he now delights to spare:

Cries how shall I give thee up?

Let's the Lifted Thunder drop.

VIII.

Whence to me this waste of Love;

Ask my Advocate above?

See the Cause in Jesus Face;

Now before the Throne of Grace.

IX.

There for me the Saviour stands;

Shews his Wounds and spreads his Hands:

God is Love, I know, I feel,

Jesus Weeps, but Loves me still.

X.

Jesus answer from above;

Is not all thy Nature Love:

Wilt thou not the Wrong forget;

Suffer me to kiss thy Feet.

XI.

If I rightly read thy Heart,

If thou all Compassion art,

Bow thine Ear in Mercy low,

Pardon and accept me now.

XII.

Pity from thine Eye let fall,

By a Look my Soul recall;

Now the Stone to flesh convert,

Cast a Look and break my Heart.

XIII.

Now incline me to Repent,

Let me now my Fall lament,

Now my Soul revolt deplore,

Weep, Believe, and Sin no more.

XIV.

Out-cast of Men to you I call,

Harlots, Publicans and Thieves,

He spreads his Arms to embrace you all,

Sinners alone the Grace Receives.

No need of him the Righteous have,

He came the Lost to Seek and Save.

XV.

Come O my guilty Brethren come,

Groaning beneath your Load of Sin,

His Bleeding Heart shall make you Room,

His open Side shall take you in;

He calls you in, Invites you home,

Come O my guilty Brethren come.

XVI.

Fix, O Fix my wavering Mind,

Too thy Cross my Spirit bind.

Gladly would I now be cleans'd,

Wash me Lord from all my Sins.

XVII.

Jesue see my panting Breast,

See I pant in thee to Rest.

Day and Night I cry to thee,

As thou art, so let me be.

XVIII.

Praise God from whom pure Blessings flow.

Whose Bowels yearn, on all below,

Who would not have one Sinner lost,

Praise, Father, Son, and Holy-Ghost.

My dear Brother, I beseech you while you have Time, look you unto the Lord, and seek him while he may be found, harden not your Heart against God, for he is merciful and just to every one that believeth. Hear my Prayer, O God, and hide not thyself from my Petitions.

The following is the Account of Robert Rhodes , taken from his own Mouth some few Days before his Execution.

* ROBERT RHODES , born at Beverley in Yorkshire , when of proper Age was put Apprentice to a Glazier and Plummer in the same Town, but finding his Business not answer he came up to London , where after continuing some Time, he run very much in Debt, which obliged him to leave his Habitation, and getting together what Money he could, he made the best of his Way for Durham , when he came there he went to see several Friends; and being Master at that Time of upwards of 50 l. he dressed very gay, and being among several of his Acquaintance, at last met with a Gentleman who was very ingenious in the Art of Painting, and who had formerly some Knowledge of him at London , proposed to Rhodes to learn him the Art of Painting , which he readily accepted off, and likewise made a Bargain to board him in the House.

Rhodes continued in this Station upwards of a Twelvemonth, and after that took a House for himself in order to follow that Business, and having as was observed before, pretty many Acquaintance, might if he had minded his Business have lived comfortably in this Station; but being of a Disposition not much inclined to Business he could not mind it, for instead of being in his Shop, he was continually at some Diversion or other, such as Horse-Races, Balls, &c. which generally stripp'd him pretty well of his Cash, and put him often at his Wits-end to get more; but pretty much frequenting the Billiard-Tables at that Place, used now and then by that Means to get a Supply.

During the Time of his House-keeping, he got acquainted with a Tradesman's Daughter of that City, who entertain'd him in the Quality of a Suitor. This Girl he so far insinuated himself into her Affections, that she proved with Child by him; during this Intrigue, Rhodes had so drained this Girl of Money, in order to support his Extravagancies, which obliged her often to rob her Father for him; but making too often free with her Father's Money, she was at last found out, and was taken to Task by him about it, wereupon without any Hesitation she acquaintted her Father that she was married, and that she had frequently took several Sums of Money in order to supply her Husband's Necessities, but would not confess who this Husband was.

The old People to be sure was very uneasy at their Daughter's Proceedings, and threatned to turn her out of Doors if she would not confess who she had married; at last she told them that her Husband wuld come there in three Days to see her, for he was gone some Miles off, and then they should see who she had married. With these Words the old People was for the present satisfied, whereupon the Girl took an Opportunity that Evening to acquaint Rhodes with what she had done, and how her Father had missed his Money; and likewise that she had not confessed who was her Husband, and at the same Time with abundance of Tears begg'd that he would direct her how to proceed. To this Rhodes was at a Stand, and as was observed before, his Af

* This is the Person who swore against one Robert Hunt and James Timms , at the Old-Bailey , in the Mayoralty of the Right Honourable Humphry Parsons , Esq ; Sessions Book No III. for assaulting him on the King's Highway, on Feb. 12, 1741. and taking from him a Penknife, value 1 d. an Iron Key, value 1 d. and 3 s. 11 d. They were both capitally convicted upon his Evidence, and executed at Tyburn on Wednesday the 18th of March 1741.

fairs began to be worse and worse every Day, so that he could not stay much longer in this Place without being arrested and flung into Goal for Debt; but at last thinking if he could by any Means contrive to get a Sum of Money, that he would take her up with him to London and there marry her.

She seem'd overjoyed at these Proposals, and told him she would do her Endeavour, but feared her Father was so cautious (since he found out she had robb'd him) that it would be with some Difficulty, but told him she would meet him in the Evening the next Day, and let him know what Success she had; and he told her he would prepare Things in readiness for their Journey to London , so they both parted for that Time. The Girl when she came Home found indeed that her Father and Mother were more careful of their Money, for they had taken Care to secure it under Lock and Key, but she took an Opportunity when they were both a Bed and asleep, to come down very softly, and pick'd their Pockets of their Keys, and so went to the Place where the Money was, and finding but the Sum of 50 l. for they had very luckily converted 250 l. the Day before into Bank Notes, which Notes the Girl not thinking they were of any Service left behind her; after she had done this, she stole softly down into her Father and Mother's Room, and put the Keys where she had found them, and then went softly down into her Father and Mother's Room and bundled up her Cloaths, which she locked up in her Closet till a proper Opportunity, for she was not to meet her Friend Rhodes till the next Evening, and the next Day being Market Day, she knew her Father would be up very early to go to Market, so that she thought she could deal with her Mother very well.

The next Morning her Father arose early, and went out according as she expected, and generally those sort of People in their Dealings get pretty merry over a Cup of Ale in making their Bargains, so did her Father, for he came Home about 5 o'Clock in the Afternoon very much in Liquor and went to Bed, and her Mother going out to pay a Visit to a Neighbour of her Acquaintance, in this Time she found means to convey her Cloaths to Rhodes's Shop, which was about a Quarter of a Mile from her Father's House, and he being at Home ready to receive them; Rhodes took in her Apparel, and she told him what she had done, and likewise concerning the Notes, which put him in a sort of a Hurry that she should miss such an Opportunity; but it was now too late, for her Mother had taken her Father's Keys out of his Pocket, and carried them out along with her, and if she staid another Night, in all Probability the Money would be missed, so there was no Time to be lost.

Now Rhodes after some Consideration, not caring to go to London, as he had before proposed, and meeting accidentally with an Acquaintance, a Master of a small Vessel which lay at Stockdon , which Vessel was going for France , Rhodes agreed with this Man for his and his Girl's Passage, as knowing the Vessel would go off very soon, and that she could conceal herself Aboard if any Enquiry was made after her. This he communicated, and she very readily agreed to it, as indeed she would comply to any Thing he proposed; so she step'd Home after she had left her Cloaths to see how Things was, and likewise to get some of the Notes if she could; but in this latter Affair she could do nothing, her Mother having the Keys; but as soon as she returned Home, and her Mother came in, she pretended that she was very ill, and wanted to go to Bed, so took her Leave of her Mother, bidding her good Night; but instead of that, she went up into her Room, and when she had a little settled herself, she came down Stairs softly without her Shoes, and stole out at the back Door, and came immediately to Rhodes's House, who had before taken Care to provide for his Jour-ney as well as he could, for he had borrowed a great Coat of one, and several Things of another, and what Money he could of every Body that would lend him any, and leaving a Man in his Shop, pretending to his Creditors that he was going to receive a Legacy about 40 Miles distant from the City, which would satisfy them all; with these Words they were made easy.

But to return, as soon as she came in, Rhodes, who was ready dressed in his great Coat, &c. and she being ready likewise, they made the best of their Way for Stockdon , and getting all their Things aboard, and themselves likewise, the Vessel set Sail about 3 o'Clock the next Morning, and arrived with a quick Passage upon the Coast of France, and they both landing, Rhodes's Wife was taken very ill, and continued so for some Days at a little Village in France; at last Symptoms of Death approaching, the Fryars one or two of them came to administer their last Sacrament, which is extreme Unction, (which Rhodes liked well enough, as knowing when she died he had lost all his Care of providing for her, and besides he thought her a very great Clog in his Way, and likewise he could travel more conveniently by himself. After this was over she in a small Space died, and left Rhodes in Possession of about 50 l. with what he had got himself, and all her Cloaths, which Cloaths help'd to bury her; for as soon as she was dead, Rhodes employed a Person to take Charge about her Burial, which cost about 3 l. besides her Apparel, which he made a very handsome Burial for her, which was done three Days after she died.

As soon as the Funeral Ceremony was over, the next Day Rhodes proceeded on his Journey towards Paris , and arriving there in about six Days Time, he went to a Publick House which English People kept, and examining the Contents of his Treasure, found he was Master of 40 l. besides his Cloaths, and the next Day he took a Lodging and boarded where several young English Gentlemen Surgeons lodged and boarded, who came over from London, in order to see the Practice at the Hotel-Dieu . Rhodes soon insinuated himself into their Company, and passed for a Surgeon likewise, while he was here he used chiefly to support himself by playing at Billiards.

While he lodged at this House, he contracted an Acquaintance with one of these Gentlemen, and Rhodes bought himself a new Suit of Cloaths, and appeared Alamode de France, in a very gay Manner, and he and his Friend used to frequent all manner of publick Places of Note, as Opera's, Plays, &c. in frequenting these Places, he was under a Necessity to break into his standing Stock, and had nigh well consumed it, before he thought of any Thing towards raising a Recruit; at last he got acquainted one Day at the Billiard-Table (which he used to frequent) with a Frenchman, who was expert at that Game, to this Person Rhodes broke his Mind, telling him what a Sum might be raised by their playing Booty together, which he told him he had practised in England with very great Success.

The Frenchman approving of the Thing, they consulted to meet together the next Day privately, in order to agree how the Design should be put into Execution, which they settled in the following manner, viz Rhodes was to go to the Billiard-Table proposed, and to play a certain Time, and then the Frenchman was to come in, and he was to challenge Rhodes to play, and whatever was Won was to be snacked between them; this Design succeeded according to their Wish, for they both being very good Players, the Bystanders was not certain which Way to lay their Money, at last pitched on Rhodes, who you may depend upon 't was sure to loose, and when they changed their Sides, the Frenchman likewise lost; they gained considerable by these Stratagems to the amount of a 100 l. between them in a few Days. At last the Frenchman who thought to out-wit Rhodes, proposed that he should let him have the whole Sum which they had before won, and then to go to the illiard-Table, and when they came there, Rhodes was to fix upon a Person, who all the Company knew play'd worse than himself; this Person Rhodes was to challenge to play for a trifling Sum, and if he could get him to play, then the Frenchman was to lay all he could against Rhodes, who was to loose, this Rhodes agreed to, and the next Day they went, and this Stratagem succeeded according to their Design, for the other Person accepted of Rhodes's Challenge, it being but for a Trifle, and Rhodes losing the first Game, encouraged the other to play on, and while they was a playing, the Company came in a pace, and the Frenchman making of his Betts against Rhodes, most of the Company who had seen

Rhodes play before betted for him, and by this means the Frenchman who had all the Money, won upwards of 50 l. till he had drained their Pockets pretty well, and when he found he could make no more Betts, he whilst Rhodes was at Play slip'd out of the Room unperceived, and carried all the Money clear off along with him. Rhodes being very intent upon his Game, did not miss him till he was gone out of the Room sometime, and then accidentally turning and missing the Frenchman, he posted away, flinging down his Mace in the middle of his Game, the People wondered at his sudden Departure, as indeed they very well might.

Rhodes goes away immediately to where the Frenchman used to frequent, but could hear nothing of him; at last he went to his Lodgings, but was not there, and the People told Rhodes that he had got all his Things away; this put Rhodes into a great Consternation, and he went Home with a very heavy Heart, having but one melancholly Guinea left in his Pockets. The next Day Rhodes rambled all over the City, but could hear nothing of the Frenchman, and by this Time his Guinea being pretty nigh gone, he was at a stand what Course next to take; at last, telling some English Gentlemen a very dismal Story how he had been defrauded out of all his Money, by a Person who had made his Escape; and carrying some of them to the Lodgings where this Frenchman lived, and the People confirming what he had inform'd them; the Gentlemen gther'd amongst them upwards of 5 Guineas, (which Rhodes said was to bear his Expences, and carry him over to England) which they gave him. Now as soon as he had got this Money he made the best of his way for Calais , and when he had arrived there the first House he entered into, who should he meet but the Frenchman, who had before Bilk'd him, (was a Waiting for his Passage.) The Frenchman you needs must think was very much Confounded, at his unexpected Meeting, and could scarce speak at the sight of Rhodes.

Rhodes who had always a good presence of Mind, did not fly into a Passion at this unexpected sight; but ask'd him how he could be such a Villain to serve him in the manner he did. The Frenchman pretended to be very sorry for what he had done, and told him he would give him half what he had, which he said was about 30 l. the rest he said he had lost at Hazard; and likewise he appeared by seeing Rhodes at that Place, that he was going to England, and he told him that when they came there he had some Friends that he was to receive 300 l. off, and then he would generously Refund all he had taken away with Interest; this Rhodes seem'd to be well satisfied with, and both being agreed, they supp'd together in a very Friendly manner; the Frenchman putting the Glass about, he began to be very Merry.

Now the next Morning about 5 o'Clock the Vessel was to go off to carry Passengers to Dover , this Rhodes understanding, and as was observ'd before, the Frenchman being very merry, Rhodes took an opportunity to give him Quantum Sufficatum, or a Doss of Liquid Laudinum, a Bottle of which he constantly used to carry in his Pocket, this soon clos'd the Frenchman's Eyes, and he fell fast a sleep in the Chair where he sat.

Now as soon as this was done, Rhodes call'd the Landlord of the House, and told him that his Friend had over Drank himself and was a sleep, and he desired that he would order him to be put to Bed, for fear he should catch Cold; and likewise told him that he need prepare but one Bed, he intending to lay that Night with him himself.

This being done, Rhodes did not sit up long afterwards, but was shew'd up to Bed in the same Room; as soon as he entered the Room, he searched the Frenchman's Pockets, and found upwards of 45 l. besides the 15 which he had given him over Night; then taking all his Linnen out of his Portmantua, Rhodes put it into his own, then went to Bed, and was up in the Morning before 5 o'Clock, and came down Stairs, and told the Landlord of the House, that his Friend was so very Ill that he could not get up to go this Passage, but would wait for the next, and he

desir'd nobody might disturb him; for he had not slept all Night. By the time that Rhodes had Drank something, the Vessel was ready to go off, so Rhodes sent his Portmantua on Board, and taking leave of the Landlord, followed himself.

Likewise he in the Morning left the Frenchman a Letter of Consolation which he put in his Pocket, was as follows, viz.

MONSIEUR,

" YOU will no doubt be surpriz'd when you " Awake, and find your Companion flown. " You may thank Providence that I have left " you your Cloaths, I think to take the rest of " my Money and Interest when I next meet you. " Where you not a sad Fellow to cheat me in " the manner you did; however, I must content " myself with that little return I made bold with; " and it would add to my Satisfaction if I could " see your Behaviour when you come to yourself".

A Dieu! Morbleau.

As soon as he came to Town, he set up a Cheesemongers-Shop , in Little St. Andrew-Street , near the Seven-Dials , and from thence he mov'd to the Corner of Earl Street , in King Street , and there he bore a pretty good Character amongst the Neighbourhood; but when he mov'd into Earl Street , he was made a Headborough , and then he began to loose his Credit, for he took upon him to turn Thief-Taker ; by following these Practices, his Business of a Cheesemonger was reduc'd to such a low Ebb, that at last he took to forging Notes and Wills, which last he suffer'd for.

The exact manner how ROBERT RHODES twice attempted to make his Escape out of Newgate, which is as follows.

HE had no sooner receiv'd his Doom, but instead of turning his Thoughts on God, and Employing his Time (Mercifully allowed him) for a preparation for Death; he on the Contrary, employed his time in Contriving his Escape out of the Cell's, to affect which he procured some Tools for the purpose; by the Means of one Atkinson, who was an Evidence at that time, against some People for stealing Lead, from St. Sepulchre's-Church, who had no sooner let Rhodes have the Tools, but he went to a Gentleman belonging to the Place, and discovered his design, who immediately had Rhodes secured in a proper Manner. Some time since, having little hopes of being saved, he mentioned about 16 Persons concern'd with him in forging of Wills, and confess'd that by that Practice, they Receiv'd 500 l. per Month, by which Confession he was in great hopes of gaining a Reprieve, tho' he did not so much rely upon that, as the Thoughts he had a second time of attempting his Escape.

He invited several of the Persons, under the same unhappy Sentence with him, into the Conspiracy. But none of them took Notice of what he said to them; at that time a Debtor being brought into the Cell's, for some disturbance he had made, amongst his Fellow Prisoner's, had the Liberty of his Wife coming too and fro to him when e'er she pleased; she in going backwards and forwards, was obliged to go by the Door of Rhode's Cell, before she could come to her Husband; Rhodes took the Opportunity one Day, to discover his Design to the Woman, and earnestly insisted on her to get the things for him, and Promis'd her 20 l. two Days after he had got his Liberty, and gave her a Paper to inform her what to get, which she took, and instead of going to buy the things, went to the same Gentleman, with the Paper of her Instructions, and so discovered the whole affair, and Rhodes was a second time secured.

Rhodes was about 35 Years of Age, born at Beverly in Yorkshire , has Travell'd most part of England, and likewise Abroad; never liv'd long in a Place, was always very merry amongst his Fellow Sufferer's, and took delight in telling of Rogueries, and how extensive his Knowledge was in his Roguery, of all kinds whatsoever; he was Season'd intirely in Wickedness, and guilty of almost every thing Ill, (except Murder) His Intensions was, that if he had been so successful in his Attempts of Escaping, as he thought to have been, and could have got the other Priso

ners with him, for to have intic'd them to stay with him, in one House altogeter, and there to have kept them, until a Reward had been Offer'd for the taking of them, and then to have sent his Wife, to have discover'd where they was, and so have them taken again, and his Wife to receive the Reward, and he himself to Escape, and to go on the Highway till he could get about 100 l. and then to go into the Country, and hire a Farm, and if he should fall short of Cash at any time in his Farming, he propos'd to come nigh to London, and make 20 or 30 l. and so return home.

A Paper written by Mr. WOOD, after receiving his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve.

" IF there be an inexpressible Joy in recovering from a dangerous Feaver, and being " delivered from the Jaws of Death, according " to the Course of Nature, and in the Way that " every Man must experience, how much higher " must my Satisfaction rise, who through the " Tenderness of Royal Mercy, am deliver'd not " only from Death, but from the bitterest of " Deaths, that, of becoming a public Spectacle, " and being exposed in my last Agonies, to the " Pity of many, and the Derision of more.

" How much do I owe to the Clemency of my " most gracious Sovereign, who in his goodness, " has been pleased to call me from Death to Life, " to rebate the edge of the Law, and by his " Compassion to save me from the just Effects of " my own Crimes, who having never heard of " me, but as an Offender, was yet pleas'd to " take into his Royal Consideration, those mitigating Circumstances, which attended my " Offence, and in consequence thereof, to save " me from my unhappy, but just Sentence.

" How can I repay the Kindness of those " worthy Gentlemen, who forgetting all the " Follies of my Life, and this most henious Addition to them, were so humane to concern " themselves in my Favour, and to have more " Pity on me in the Day of my Distress, than in " the Days I once thought Pleasure, I had upon " myself. Who by their Intercession, gave some " Degree of Merit to a worthless Wretch, and " thereby put it in my Power to deserve that " Mercy I have receiv'd.

" But above all how thankful ought I to be " to that Supreme Being, who touch'd the Hearts " of these Gentlemen with Tenderness, for my " unhappy Condition, and inclin'd his Majesty " to give Ear to their Request. How sincerely " do I admire the Ways, by which Providence " has conducted me through that Labyrinth " wherein I was be wilder'd with my Folly, and " saw no Issue, but by a Way on which I wanted Courage to look.

" Let these Thoughts be ever in my Mind, let " me not forget what I have been, or how I " came to be what I am; let me endeavour to " efface the Memory of my former Faults, by " my future Behaviour; let a just fear restrain me " from what is Evil, and a proper Sense of the " great Mercy I have received, encourage me " to live, so as that it may appear to be well " bestowed. Let me always remember how " much I owe the Royal Hand, that snatch'd me " from the Grave; let me not disgrace those " Recommendations, which my Friends were so " kind to give me, and let me improve the " Remainder of my Life, so that when Death " comes in it's natural Course, I need not desire " another Reprieve.

From the Cell's in Newgate , July, 10, 1742.

SAMUEL WOOD .

The following LETTER Rhodes wrote, and sent it on Thursday last, July 8, To Mr. MANTON, Cheesemonger, in Parkers-Lane , near Lincoln's-Inn-Fields .

Dear Cousin,

I AM sorry you should have the Trouble to go down to the Gatehouse last Night; the Person as was to carry the Letter, never came, but if you can serve me, Mr. Unwin I dare say will do what he can. Pray go with him to Mr. Doby, and entreat him with good Words, to serve me if you can; don't fail, and if you go down to the Gatehouse, my Wife will tell you what she had in the Strand: Sowe them in a Cloth and carry them to one Mrs. Hust's at Mr. Caterell's in Shoemaker-Row , near the Green-Man in Black-Fryars ; She

said she would bring them to me; if she will not; then I desire you to so we 'em up in a dark colour'd Cloth, and then convey the Tools to me to Night about 10 o'Clock, or To-morrow Morning by 4 o'Clock. That I might have them in the Morning, my Wife will tell you how you may get them.

You may Buy them for a Triffle Second-Hand; lap some Paper round them, as they dont chink against one another. For God sake, let me have 'em to Night, if possible, and we are sure to be out, for e can do it asie; get a half Inch Spike bit, a large Gimblet, a half Inch Goge, a Chissel, a turning Saw, such as they make Key holes with, not too small, and a pair of Pinchers, they will cost but a small Matter Second-Hand, they don't cost but Twenty-pence, or thereabouts New, but New will not do for me, because they have no Handles. Let them be sharp or they will not do for my Purpose; With the Assistance of God, that will save my Life. For God sake, dont fail, and I will go down as far as Cumberland, or thereabouts, and never see London again was I but out. Dear Cousin, don't fail me.

From your Dying Cousin, As long as please God,

ROBERT RHODES .

From the Cells of Newgate , July 8, 1742.

N. B. When you have conveyed the Tools to me, if you have a Mind, you may call, and say, All's Right you hope.

ADVERTISEMENT.

This Day is Publish'd,

In Four neat Pocket Volumes, Printed on a good Letter and fine Paper, Price Bound 12 s. The Second Edition, (with very large Additions, of the most remarkable Trials, down to the present Time) of

SELECT Trials at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey for Murder, Robberies, Rapes, Coining, Sodomy, Frauds and other Offences; chiefly transcribed from Notes taken in Court. To which are added (not to be met with in any other Collection) Genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts.

Among others are the following:

MURDER. Sarah Malcolm , George Price , James Hall , Charles Mechlin , Major Oneby, Lewis Houssart , Catherine Hayes , Richard Savage , Capt . John Jane , Capt. Stanley, James Clough , and others.

PRIVATELY STEALING. Patrick Gaffney , Phillis Noble , Jonathan Wild , Sir Charles Burton , &c.

HIGHWAY, Hawkins and Simpson, Spiggot that bore 350 lb. wt. on his Breast, William Gordon , William Wreathock , Thomas Carr , Elizabeth Adams , William Barkwith , Jenny Diver , James Dalton , &c.

RAPES and Attempts to RAVISH. Col. Francis Chartres , Esq ; William West , Adam White , William Robbins , Arthur Gray , &c.

SODOMY and SODOMITICAL Practices. George Duffus , John Dicks , George Kedger , Thomas Wright , Charles Hitchin , at that Time was City-Marshal , Margaret Clap , &c.

FORGERY. William Hales , Parson Kinnersley, William Newington , Richard Brabant , &c.

Printed by John Applebee , and Sold by J. Hodges, at the Looking-Glass, over-against St. Magnus-Church, London-Bridge.

N. B. These Trials are not only necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of Indictments, and other Persons concerned in Prosecutions, &c. but are useful and entertaining to the generality of Readers, containing more in Quantity as well as Cheaper than any Thing of this Kind yet published.

FINIS.

