THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF

The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Monday the 17th of March, 1717/1718.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Thursday and Friday the 27th & 28th of February last, and adjourn'd to Thursday the 6th instant, Thirteen Persons, viz. Eight Men and Five Women, that were Try'd for, and Convicted of several Capital Crimes, receiv'd Sentence of Death: But Three of the Women being found Pregnant, and another, with Three of the Men having obtain'd HIS Most Sacred MAJESTY'S gracious Reprieve (which I wish them Grace duly to improve) Six, viz 5 Men and 1 Woman only, are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this deplorable State of Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them twice every Day brought up to the Chapel of Newgate; where I pray'd with them, read and expounded the Word of GOD to them, and instructed them in those Points of Religion which were most proper for them both to know and to practise, endeavouring to make them sensible, and repent of their past Sins, and to pray for that Grace, by the Divine Power whereof they might be rescu'd from under the Slavery of Sin and Satan, and admitted into the glorious Liberty of the Children of GOD. This was the Drift and Purpose of my Daily Admonitions to them: And,

On the Lord's Day the 2d instant I preach'd to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon; and the Words of my Text (taken out of the Second Lesson for that Morning-Service) were these, Luke xiii. 3. I tell you, Nay: But except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.

In my Explanation of these Words of our Blessed Saviour, I first shew'd the Occasions upon which they were both spoken here, and repeated at the 5th Verse; and then observ'd, How Almighty GOD (in his Dispensations towards the Children of Men) does punish some Sinners with sudden Destruction, and others He reserves for future Judgment; thereby teaching us speedily to repent, lest (in our Security) we may be surpris'd, and have neither Room nor Time left us for recollecting our selves, and amending our wicked Lives: A miserable Condition! which those wretched Sinners shall be reduced to at the last, who shall be thus overtaken by the Divine Ven

geance, for having presumptuously abused the Divine Mercy that had spar'd them so long, not as allowing them to continue and go on in their sinful Course, but giving them Opportunity and Encouragement to reform, and become wise unto Salvation, before it be too late; for says the Apostle to the persisting harden'd Sinner, Despisest thou the Riches of God's Goodness, and Forbearance, and Long-suffering, not knowing that the Goodness of God leadeth thee to Repentance? Rom. ii. 4.

The Useful Doctrine taught by Our Blessed Saviour in the Text I endeavour'd to set in its true Light; shewing,

1st, That Punishments (whether present or future, i. e. whether sudden or delay'd) are by the Supream Judge and Governour of the whole World inflicted upon Men for their Sins; and, That more signal and severe Punishments will certainly be their Portion, who are guilty of more signal and heinous Offences and Provocations.

2dly, That though God Almighty, in his Justice, does sometimes suddenly punish some Sinners for great and notorious Sins; yet He, in his Mercy, usually spares more than He does thus signally punish.

3dly, That therefore none ought to conclude from such signal and extraordinary Judgments, that the Persons so punish'd were greater Sinners than they who are spar'd.

4thly, ult. That the best Use Men can make of the Reports or Spectacles of Notorious Offenders, thus punish'd in an extraordinary manner, is presently (and without delay) to examine themselves, and to repent, lest they also perish, and come to a fearful End in this World, and be at last eternally undone, and brought to unspeakable and endless Misery in the World to come.

In speaking to these Particulars, I chiefly did these two Things.

I. I gave my Auditory some Warnings and Cautions against Sin. And,

II. I offer'd them some proper Remedies for Sin.

Which having done, I then concluded with particular and sesonable Admonitions to the Condemn'd, exhorting them to apply to themselves (in an especial manner) what had been here deliver'd to them in general concerning God's Judgments upon Sinners, and Sinners indispensable Duty and Interest to Repent.

Again, on the Lord's Day the 9th instant, I preach'd to them, both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, on Eccles. xii. 14. For God shall bring every Work into Judgment, with every secret Thing, whether it be Good, or whether it be Evil.

From which Words, and from other Scripture parallel thereto, I shew'd,

I. That all Men, and all their Works, shall be brought to Judgment.

II. That that Judgment is Certain, and will be most Exact.

III. ult. That therefore it highly concerns every one to make due Preparation for it, and avoid the intolerable Severity of it by Faith and Repentance; which Men ought to beg of GOD, the Giver of every good and perfect Gift; Jam. i. 17.

Yesterday, the 16th instant, being the Lord's Day, when I expected James Sheppard should be, but was not, brought up to the Chapel with the rest of the Prisoners condemn'd, I preach'd upon these Words of GOD in Exod. xx. 13. Thou shalt not kill.

From which Words, ilustrated by several other Texts I quoted out of the Old and New Testament, I shew'd,

I. The heinous Nature of the Crime of Murder.

II. The Severe Punishment due to it, which is irremissible, as the Fact is irreparable, in this World.

III. ult. How the Person guilty, ought carefully and thoroughly to repent of it, and also of all other Sins, chiefly those that might have had a tendency to this.

Upon these I enlarg'd, and then proceeded to the Application; concluding the Whole with particular Admonitions, suitable to the sad Circumstances of them that were under Sentence of Death; who seem'd (most of them) to be very attentive to my publick Instructions, as they were to my private Exhortations and ghostly Advice, seriously hearkening to what I taught and offer'd to them from the Comfortable Word of God, for the good of their Souls; who earnestly desir'd my Prayers for them; which they had, and which, I hope, were heard by Him, to whom Holy David makes this his Address in Psal. 65. 2. O Thou that hearest Prayer! Unto Thee shall all Flesh come.

In my more retir'd Conversation with these dying Persons, they gave me the respective Accounts of themselves, which follow.

I. Ferdinando Marquess de Paléotti , condemn'd for Stabbing his Servant John Niccolo , on the 11th of February last. He said, he was 38 Years of age, born of a Noble Family in Italy, brought up in the Roman Catholick Religion, and had been for many Years past an Officer, and was actually a Colonel of a Regiment of Dragoons in the Emperor's Service. In my frequent Visits to him, and Conversation with him in French, which (next to his Mother-Tongue) was the Language he understood best, he express'd a great deal of Uneasiness at his close Confinement and his Fetters; an Usage, he said, he had never met with before; and upon that, was very much dissatisfy'd and impatient. He deny'd the Murder he was condemn'd for, and would not at first hear any-body

talk to him of Repentance; saying, He was a Man of Honour, who never did a base thing, nor injur'd any Man. It was a great while before he could be brought to a serious Consideration of a Future State, and of the Duty incumbent upon, and the great Necessity there was for, every Man (Dying Men especially) to make a due Preparation for it; but at last he seem'd to be more affected with what was laid before him in this weighty Matter, and said, He was obliged to me for my good Advice, and he would follow it: And so I hope he did; for as Death made its nearer approach to him, I perceiv'd he grew more considerate, and more devout. Hearing from many Persons, That he had kill'd several beyond Sea, I did ask him, Whether it was so: To which he gave me this Answer, That he never did any such thing; never was guilty of Murder. At the Place of Execution, whither he was convey'd in a Mourning-Coach from Newgate between 6 & 7 of the Clock this Morning, I was willing to attend him, if he desir'd it; but he thank'd me, and only desiring my Prayers, said, He was a Roman-Catholick, and there was no great Need of my taking that Trouble: So I did not go; and therefore can give here no Account (of my own Knowledge) concerning his Behaviour there.

2. Mary Lovelock , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mr. John Williams , and stealing thence a Silk-Damask-Gown, a Petticoat, and other Goods, to the value of 8 l. on the 1st of July last. She said she was about 50 Years of age, born in the Parish St. Botolph, Aldgate : That her Employment was to cry about the Streets Old Cloaths ; and, That she never committed any criminal Fact before this, which she readily confess'd, wishing she had not done it. She could not read, and was very ignorant; yet she said she had always serv'd GOD to the best of her Ability, us'd frequently to go and hear Sermons, sometimes in her Parish-Church, and at other times at St. Mary's, Whitechapel . This is the whole Substance of the Account she gave me of her self, whom I found pretty well dispos'd to receive my Instructions in Meekness, and was in appearance desirous to profit by them.

3. John Bill , condemn'd for a Burglary by him committed in breaking the House of Mr. Edward Buckley , on the 3d of January last. He said he was 26 Years of age, born at St. Edmond'sbury in Suffolk : That he liv'd with his Father, a Butcher there, till 15 Years old; and then came up to London , and was a Servant to an Officer belonging to the Army, and afterwards leaving that Service, listed himself a Soldier in Colonel Britain's Regiment, in which he serv'd about 2 Years in Spain, and then being taken Prisoner by the French, was carry'd to Troy in Champagne , where he remain'd 2 Years and 14 Days, and had good Usage: That having at last obtain'd his Liberty, he was listed again into the Service, as a private Centinel in Colonel Temple's Regiment; in which he serv'd 2 Years in Flanders: That this Regiment being broke, he went home to his own Country, and follow'd the Butcher's Trade , as he had done before with his Father, who was now dead: That when he had been in that Occupation about a Twelvemonth, he came up to London again, and listed himself in the Second Regiment of Foot-Guards, but did not continue in it very long; for being disabled by the Wounds he had receiv'd in the Army, he was soon discharg'd, and never sought for Admittance into the Invalids at Chelsea, nor for a Pension. This is the Account of his past Life and Adventures; adding, That he never was much addicted to Swearing, Drunkenness, and Whoredom: and, That he never committed any Crime, and was clear in his Conscience of that he now stood condemn'd and must die for. But

afterwards, upon my admonishing him not to presume to add Sin to Sin, by denying the Fact he was found, and probably guilty of: He said at last, That if he had done it, he repented of it, and would then say no more, nor be ask'd any further Questions. He was very ignorant and stubborn: He could not read in the least, nor knew so much as the Lord's Prayer, and seem'd to be very indifferent about being better inform'd. Yet I endeavour'd (according to my Duty) to instruct him, as far as possible, in the Principles of Religion, and shew'd him the Necessity he was under to pray to GOD for Grace, that he might truly Repent, and be eternally Sav'd.

4. Thomas Miller , alias Millard , condemn'd for 5 Robberies by him committed (chiefly) upon the King's Highway; to all which he pleaded Guilty: And they were these, viz. 1st, Stealing a Bay Mare, value 7 l. and 2dly, A Coat and Waistcoat, with other things, being the Goods of Mr. Tho. Levin , on the 28th of December last. 3dly, Assaulting Mr. William Diason , and taking from him a Mare of the value of 40 s. and 22 Shillings in Money; and 4thly, Robbing the said Mr. Diason of 6 Guinea's; 5thly and lastly, Stealing a Cloth, value 10 s. from the Person of the said Mr. Diason, on the 10th of January last. Having own'd all these Robberies, and said, he had committed many more, he afterwards gave me the following Account of himself, viz. That he was 21 Years of age, born at Uxbridge in Middlesex : That when but young his Father dying, he was left to the Care of an Uncle of his, who bound him Apprentice to a Butcher in London : That after he had serv'd 2 Years of his Apprenticeship, he bought off the remaining Time he had to serve, and bound himself Apprentice to a Lighter-man , designing, when he had serv'd out his Time, to have turn'd a Coal-Merchant , by the Help of his Uncle, who was both able and willing to set him up in that Business; but he continu'd no longer in this Service than he did in the former, i. e. about the term of 2 Years, and then less his Master, and went to live with his Uncle again. That after he had been about a Twelvemonth with him, and all the while troublesome to him, making him very uneasy by his Extravagant way of Living, he at last went away from him, that he might have a larger Scope to act according to his Mind, and give a full Swinge to his loose Fancies: That when he was thus without any Restraint, he began to rob on the Highway, stealing Horses, &c. In which wicked Practice he said he had not been engag'd much above 8 Months, and within that time had committed about 15 or 16 Robberies: But he thank'd GOD he never had attempted to kill any Person. He seem'd to be very sensible of his past Follies and Sins, and to repent of them. Upon my telling him that he ought to restore to the right Owners the Things he had unjustly taken from them, or otherwise to make them Amends for the Injuries, as far as possible: He said, That was already done, and shew'd he understood this to be a necessary part of his Repentance, that a Man does not truly repent (as he ought to do) who does not undo and repair as much as he can the Evil he has been so unhappy as to commit. A few Days before his Execution, he was taken very ill of a violent Fever, and so continu'd growing worse and worse; yet strove as much as possible to discharge the Duties of Religion, and duly prepare his Soul for a happy Eternity.

5. Charles Lodge , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mr. Michael Grimshaw , and stealing thence 2 Brass pots, a Copper pot, and other Goods, on the 31st of December last. He said, he was 17 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Giles near Cripplegate , London ; That his Father, a Pin-maker , brought him up to that Trade, and he carefully and constantly wrought at it: That he never did any ill Fact in his Life, before this; and that he would not have done it, had not the Evidence against him (who was a near Neighbour) made him fuddled, and then perswaded him to go with him, and assist him in the breaking and robbing of the said Mr. Grimshaw's House. But when I told him that he was at this Sessions Try'd for, and Convicted of another Fact, viz. the stealing felonio a Box and 4 l. of Rhubarb, out of Mr. Joseph Pargiter 's Shop, on the 1st of Febr last, he could not deny it. Then, upon my asking him how he had liv'd, he

fess'd, That he had been very unuly and undutiful to his Parents, and of late betook himself to ill Courses. Thus far he went in his Confession; but whether he was now sensible that his Undutifulness to his Parents had made way, and prepar'd him for the Commission of bolder and more dangerous Offences, and so brought him at last to this shameful End, is what I could not at first perceive in him; but at last he was very penitent.

At the Place of Execution, to which they were this Day carry'd from Newgate, I exhorted them to clear their Consciences throughly, and more and more to raise their Hearts to GOD, and to repent of all their Sins: Then I pray'd and sung a Penitential Psalm with them, and made them rehearse the Apostles Creed; and finally recommended their departing Souls to the boundless Mercy of GOD. Most of them desir'd the Spectators to take Warning by them, and pray for them. After this they apply'd themselves to their private Devotion, for which they had some Time allotted them. Then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, each of them expiring with these and the like pious Ejaculations in their Mouths: Lord, have Mercy upon me! Christ, have Mercy upon me! Lord Jesus, receive me! &c.

NB. Mary Lovelock Thomas Miller , and Charles Lodge , who before had, now again (and that more unreservedly) acknowledg'd the Guilt of their several Facts; and John Bill , that hitherto deny'd, did here at last confess the Justice of his Sentence.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Malefactors. And as for James Sheppard , condemn'd (and this day executed) for High-Treason, there will be a Large Relation of him publish'd on Wednesday next, by me

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary.

Monday, March 17. 1717-18.

ADVERTISEMENTS

AN Advertisement having been publish'd on the 27th of Sept. 1715, in the Post-Man, asserting the Gout curable, since which time (as well as before) many are living Witnesses to the Truth thereof, as shall be shewn when requir'd: The Author being encourag'd, from his Never-failing Success, doth let the World know, that he can undertake the Cure of the Gout and Rheumatism, although in the Head and Stomach, No Cure, No Money. He cures the Wind-Cholick, Dropsy, Stone, and Gravel, and all Obstructions of Urine, with many other Chronick Griefs, viz. Scurvy, Scrophulous Tumors and Swellings of all sorts. He cures the Quotidian, Tertian, and Quartan Agues: [The Poor have Advice gratis.] The Author, for some Reasons, would have declin'd this Publication (for he can live without it) were it not Sin to cease to do Good. He is to be spoke with at the Bulls-Head in Butcher-hall-lane, Newgate-street, from 8 to 12 in the Morning, and from 2 till 6 in the Afternoon.

New BOOKS printed for S. Briscoe.

THis Day is publish'd the Third Edition of the Second and Last Volume of Mrs. 's Histories and Novels (which makes her Seventeen Novels entire in 2 vols.) containing, 1. Mons. Eontenelle's History of the Plurality of Worlds. 2. An Essay on Translation and Translated Prose. 3. History of Oracles and Cheats of the pagan Priests, written in Latin by Dr. Vandale. 4. The Unfortunate Bride. 5. The dumb Virin, 6. The Unfortunate Happy Lady, 7. The Wandring Beauty, 8. The Unhappy Mistake. With Mrs. Bebn's Effigies curiously engrav'd by Mr. White Printed for D. Brown, S. Biscoe, W. Mears, J. Brown, and F. Clay, at Temple-bar. On Saturday will be publish'd, in Pocket Volumes, on a new Elzevir Letter.

FAmiliar Letters of Love, Gallantry, and several Occasions, by the Wits of the last and present Age, viz. Mr. Butler Author of as, Mr. Flatman, Mr. Dryden, Mr. Con, Mr. Wycherly, Mr. Dennis, Mr. Farquhar, Ed. Wards, Mr. Moyle, Mr. Otmay, Mrs., Mrs. Manly, Mrs. Trotter, Mrs. Cent Livre,- Sir Roger L'Estrange -Sir John Denham , Sir Geo. Etheridge , Ld Clarendon, Ld Dorset, D. of Buckingham, D. of Devonshire, &c. from their Originals, with their Effigies curiously engrav'd by the best Masters; together with Tom Brown 's Remains, being Letters and Dialogues on the Times (not printed in his Works) the Whole collected in 2 vols. Printed for S. Briscoe, R. Smith, E. Symons, J. Osborn, J. Brotherton near the Royal Exchange; W. Taylor, A. Betsworth, J. Batley in Pater noster-Row; J. Brown, W. Mears, F. Clay at Temple-bar; J. nes, J. Graves at St. James's, and John Morphew near Stationers-hall . Also the Works of Mr. Thomas Brown , 4 vols. 12°

At the green Ball near the golden Cock the lower End of Bow-lane, lives a Gentlewoman who has.

A Certain, safe, and infallible Cure for the Tooth-ach, without drawing, and so effectually, that the Pain will never return again; it also fastens those that are loose to admiration, and preserves 'em from rotting or decaying; and a Powder that makes 'em as white as Ivory. She hath a most excellent Secret to prevent Hair from falling off, causing it to grow wherever 'tis wanting, and alters red or grey Hair to a delicate light or dark brown, which will never change. She shapes the Eyebrows, making 'em very beautiful, and takes away all superfluous Hair from the Face. She cuts Hair very finely. She hath likewise a most incomparable Wash to beautifie the Face; it plumps and softens the Skin, making it and smooth, takes away all Freckles, Tan, Morphew, Pimples, and Redness, preventing Flushings. It hath nothing of Paint, nor any Poysonous Mercurial Preparation in it.

