THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the TWO MALEFACTORS, Who were executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the Fifth of June, 1754,

BEING THE Fifth EXECUTION in the Mayoralty OF THE Right Hon. Thomas Rawlinson , Esq . LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

Together with an ACCOUNT of WILLIAM BRADFORD , Who was executed April 29, 1754, for MURDER.

NUMBER V. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and R. GRIFFITHS, at the Dunciad, in St. Paul's Church-yard, the only authorised Printers of the ORDINARY'S Account.

M.DCC.LIV.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY virtue of the King's commission of the peace, of Oyer and Terminer, and jail-delivery of Newgate, held before the right honourable Thomas Rawlinson , Esq ; lord-mayor of the city of London , Mr. justice Clive, Mr. baron Legge, William Moreton , Esq ; recorder , and others of His Majesty's justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the city of London, and jail-delivery of Newgate, for the country of Middlesex, holden at Justice-hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday the 24th, Thursday the 25th, Friday the 26th, Saturday the 27th, and Monday the 29th of April, and Wednesday the 1st of May, &c. in the 27th year of His Majesty's Reign, Mary Mayne , Hugh Mac Kabe , Silas Dowling , David Edom , and John Parry , were capitally convicted, and received sentence of death accordingly.

At the same sessions William Bradford was convicted for the wilful murder of Joseph Hoyd , and was executed on the 2d day after he received sentence of death, according to the late act.

1. Mary Mayne , spinster , was indicted, for stealing 1 pair of silver buckles, set with chrystal stones, value 1 l. 3 s. two cambrick aprons, with laced borders, and many other wearing apparel, together with a 3 36 s. pieces, the goods of Charlotte Parshall , spinster , in the dwelling house of the said Charlotte, April 2 .

2. Hugh Mac Kabe , was indicted

for committing a rape on the body of Mary Holmes , an infant not five years of age, March 28 .

3. Silas Dowling , was indicted, for that he, on the king's highway, on Nathaniel Stent did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear, and danger of his life, and taking from him one silver watch, value 3 l. his property, March 28 .

4. David Edom , was indicted for stealing four yards and a half of velvet, value 40 s. five dozen of handkerchiefs, one dozen and a half of pins, thirty-seven yards of linnen cloth, fifteen yards of muslin, thirty-six yards of silk ribbons, the goods of Richard Blackborne , William Swan , and company, in the dwelling-house of Richard Blackborne , April 17 .

5. John Parry , was indicted, for that he, on Ambrose Dawson , M. D. did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear, and danger of his life, and taking from him one gold watch, value 9 guineas, and 2 guineas in money, the goods and money of the said Ambrose Dawson , March 27 .

The behaviour of Parry and Edom, when at prayers in the chapel, did always appear to be such as become men in their unhappy situation.

On Wednesday the 29th of May Mr. Recorder made the report of four malefactors to His Majesty, when he was pleased to order John Parry , Hugh Mac Kabe , and David Edom , for execution on Wednesday the 5th instant. And, to order that the execution of Silas Dowling should be respited, till his royal pleasure, touching him, should further be made known .

On Saturday the 1st instant, a respite was brought to Mr. Akerman, from the office of one of the secretaries of state, for Hugh Mac Kabe , for two months, some favourable circumstances appearing in his favour.

1. William Bradford , was 35 years of age, said he was born in the north of Ireland , and was bred to husbandry labour. When about 18 years of age he left his native country, and came to Lancashire , and says he lived in or near Lancaster , till about five years ago he came up to London , and listed for a soldier in the first regiment of guards, from which he had been discharged about sixteen months. The reason of his discharge, he said, was upon account of his having lost the use of one of his hands by an accident, but another cause there really was, for those gentlemen always discharge suspected persons. He acknowledged to have been a very wicked and profligate liver, was unhappily ignorant, and of a surly cast of mind, and the fact he suffered for proved him to be of a savage and cruel nature to the last degree.

Bradford after conviction proved a Roman Catholick , having been taught a lesson before trial. When I cameto talk to him, he owned he had been a very bad man indeed, but as to the murder (though in the strongest terms I set forth to him the terrors of the Lord, in order to persuade him to acknowledgment of the truth) he persisted positively to declare his innocence, and that he knew nothing at all of the matter. As to other acts, whatever they were, they remain a secret, only known to God and himself; but this barbarously perpetrated a murder as it was, was done in consequence of an act of felony, of which kind it scarce was the first he was guilty of. A gardener of Chelsea 's gardens having been robbed of greens to a considerable value, he thought proper to set a watch to catch the thief. The thief came, the watch seized him among their master's greens, and secured him.

The proper place for confining a thief taken in the night happened not to be fit to hold the man, and he was taken to the headborough's house by the three men that apprehended him. Two of the three went out again into the fields to see if any body else was stealing greens. The third unhappy man locked the door, where only now remained Bradford with him, and put the key in his pocket.

Bradford finding himself alone, with but one to oppose, took a large poker that stood by the fire, and with several blows on the head, which had greatly fractured his skull, laid his guard dead at his feet, took the key out of his pocket, and made his escape. What a desperate mind must this murderer be of, who (to save himself from fear of the consequence of a felony, which could amount to no more than transportation for seven years) could conceive a thought to take away the life of a poor man who had done him no wrong! What a strong hold must the devil have had of his heart!

On the 12th of April this barbarity on a fellow-creature was committed, and though he escaped for the present, God suffered him not to go long unpunished, for on the 17th he was seen at Islington by a brother soldier, who had heard of his being the murderer of the man at Chelsea (as before related) who apprehended him. He was committed accordingly, and being brought to trial, Saturday 27, was capitally convicted, and immediately received sentence of death, and was executed on Monday the 29th of April, not without having acknowledged the justice of his suffering.

2. John Parry , aged 27, was born, he says, at Ponty-Pool , in the County of Monmouth , in the Principality of Wales . He is descended of honest, reputable Parents, who live in Credit there, and gave him an Education perhaps more than was necessary for a Person intended to go into the World in no better Condition than that of a Footman . He was a genteel well-made young Fellow, not a little fond of his own Person, which, I fear, has been of no small Prejudice to him in the Course of his Conduct thro' those few Years he has passed over in this

World. He says, he was once designed for a more useful Employment; but that he set out with was his own Taste and Choice, and his Parents were indulgent enough to let him follow his own Inclination.

I don't find from him, or any Body else, that any Thing remarkable happened in his Life before he left his native Country. He was bred up in a tender and indulgent Manner, as the Delicacy of his Person did seem to bespeak; and, I dare say, 'tis the received Opinion now of his Friends, and all that knew him, that had he made a better Use of the Advantages he had of Person and Education in his Lifetime, he would have cut a much better Figure than he did at his Death.

He gives no farther Account of himself, 'till he leaves his Father and Family, and come to London . And the first Time he came to this Metropolis, was with a Gentleman from that Part of the Kingdom where Parry was born, who has been in high Character Abroad. This Gentleman he lived with about three Years, in Conduit-street , in the Parish of St. George, Hanover-square , as a Livery Servant , or Footman . When he left this Service he was out of Place about five Months, which Time he chiefly spent at (Higgins's) Fives-Court , in St. Martins's Street , near Leicester-square , and other Places of Diversion.

After a while he got into Service with a Captain of a Man of War , and was on Board the Eagle about fourteen Months, in Quality of Captain's Clerk , and walked the Quarter Deck. His Carriage was such, that had he staid on Board, he might have been preferred in Time, as, he says, he had Reason to believe. But that boisterous Element did not suit his Nature, and he returned to London to his former Employment. And,

It was not long after he came Home before he was hired to be Footman again to a Gentleman, with whom he remained not long: But, leaving his Service, went down to Ponty-Pool , to see his Father, &c. who then kept an Inn in that Place.

When he came back to Town, he was again in Service with the Gentleman with whom he first came to London . At his House in Berkley-square , with this Gentleman, Parry remained Servant , out of his Livery, 'till such Time as he went Abroad.

During the Time of his living in Berkley-square , Parry had contracted an Acquaintance with a Publican's Wife. As soon as he left this Service, Parry and his new Acquaintance went off together, having plundered her Husband of about 60 l. After about seven Weeks Absence she returned, and was received; but Parry did not yet appear.

At this Time he was suspected by the Neighbourhood to whom he was known, of doing bad Things, as he always appeared very gay, though there was no visible Means to support it.

He afterwards lived with a Gentleman of great Honour and Esteemin Oxfordshire ; but he remained not long there, the Town being his chief Enjoyment and Delight.

Having now again been out of Place for some Time, he fell into another good Service; and, had he been faithful and just, he might have reaped the Benefits of a faithful and just Discharge of his Duty. The former Servant of a noble Lady being about to go into Business for himself, had given Notice of his Intention. It being known that one was wanted to supply his Place, Applications from several Persons were made to succeed him. Among the rest Parry wrote to solicit; who, besides writing a very good Hand, if I mistake not, had a Recommendation from the Person he was to succeed in this Service. And, accordingly, Parry was ordered to attend, and was hired in the Year 1750, where he continued 'till July 1753. Being looked upon as a good handy Fellow, and of good Appearance, he was frequently borrowed to wait at Table by Nobles of the Lady's Acquaintance, when they had any extraordinary Entertainment. He was very active, and would do the Work, and be as useful, as any other two or three People in waiting at Table.

That he was valuable in any other Respect, I am not convinced from what I heard from him, or of him; whatever Value he might have for himself, or his Friends might think to have set upon him by Reports, which for no other but sinister Views could be propagated.

In the Month of July, 1753, Parry was intrusted (by one who had Charity to think him very honest, tho' it turned out otherwise) and sent to his Lady's Banker's to receive a considerable Sum of Money, in order to pay off some Bills. And, as he was taken into Service to save the Lady the Trouble of such Affairs, 'tis no Wonder, (supposing him to be honest) that these Things were left to him. But

He returned not Home 'till Afternoon, and before he came Home his Lady was gone Abroad to Dinner. However, he takes Occasion to write Receipts, as tho' the several Tradesmen had been paid, who had delivered in Bills. Or rather, he forged them, and when she came Home, gave them to his Lady.

His Scheme began now to operate, and his bad Intention to work itself out into Practice. For, in about a Week, or little more, after this, he went off with about 1100 l. He kept back several hundred Pounds intrusted in his Hands, and took up besides several Sums of Money, as for her Use; which she, after his Flight, was obliged in Honour to pay, and did pay.

All to the Amount as aforesaid of about 1100 l. Parry took Opportunity, while the Lady was out of the Way, (as her Manner was to go out to take an Airing to her Country Seat in the Morning, and return to Town to Dinner) to make off with. Before her Return he had got best Part of his Cloaths out of her House, andhaving sent them to a certain House near Charing-Cross , himself soon followed, and staid there 'till 12 o'Clock that Night.

Under Cover of Night, he set out in a Post-Chaise for Dover , where he arrived about 10 o'Clock next Morning; and the Afternoon Tide he went in a Packet-Boat to Calais , and so to Paris . There he passed for a Welch Gentleman, and went by the Name of - Lewis, Esq; He cut a great Figure at the Tennis-Court there, and beat the best Players in Paris ; and 'tis thought he was the best Players at Fives and Tennis in Europe. In this, if I may so say, he had an Excellence; but 'twas such a one, as a Man, of his Station in Life, had no Reason to be fond of; for this, among others, proved his Ruin.

Parry had no sooner got to Paris, but fine Cloaths, and making an Appearance, was the first Thing that his Mind attended to. And somehow he got into Acquaintance with an Irishman, a top Taylor there, and passing for a Gentleman of Wales, under the Name above-mentioned, gave Orders for Cloaths the most gay and fashionable. But the Taylor having had some Knowledge of Parry in England: the Cash was deposited before the Cloaths were worn; but he had but short Enjoyment of this Gaiety and Finery, e'er he was detected to be a Cheat and Impostor. However, while he had Opportunity, he made the most of himself, and appeared the great Man at all publick Places throughout the whole City of Paris .

The noble Lady no sooner found he was gone off, and what Tricks he had played, than she applied to her Banker, who immediately wrote over to a Banker at Paris, to make some Enquiry after Parry. And, soon after Enquiry began to be made, he was discovered by his new Acquaintance the Taylor, who procured him to be taken at his Lodgings, while he was packing up his Cloaths, in order to decamp once more, and had him sent to Gaol. The Taylor sent Word of his being in Custody to England ; from whence 'twas necessary Somebody should be sent to swear to the Identity of his Person.

Two Footmen were sent over, and one of the Banker's Clerks. But, before they got over, he had confessed the Whole. Some Bank Notes were secured, which he had not changed, and the Lady had again to the Amount of 400 l. What Cash he had about him was not taken from him; but he remained in Gaol in Paris nineteen Weeks.

In the mean Time Letters were sent to France to try if the Government would give him up: But they would not, tho' the Expence of bringing him over to England was ordered to be defrayed, that so he might, for what he had now done, be brought to Justice.

However, after being 19 Weeks in Gaol, he was discharged, and ordered to quit Paris in 24 Hours, orto suffer Death. So he packed up his Cloaths, and set out for Italy , through Genoa , for Leghorn , where he remained about three Weeks, and then set Sail for England . What the Occasion of his sudden Return from Italy might be, he did not say particularly. He gave no Reason why he came away; but declared the Reason not to be, what a Pamphlet, called his Life, (printed before his Death suggested; nor what the Advertisement, which puffed off that Pamphlet before it was published pretended) viz. that it was for Murder he fled from Italy and Leghorn . This he protested was absolutely false, as he hoped to be a meet Partaker of the Holy Eucharist, (which he was then about to receive) and to be admitted to the Favour of God and Life eternal.

However, he returned to England on the 24th of March last, and when the Ship came up the River he landed at Woolwich , (having paid two Guineas for his Passage) and walked up to the Vine at Vaux hall , where he took up his Quarters, being Sunday. On Monday he lay in Bed almost all Day. On Tuesday in the Afternoon he hired a little bay Mare of the Man at the Vine , and rode round to Putney ; and, about ten o'Clock that Night, he came into Town, and in May-fair , just against Lord Chesterfield's Garden-Wall, he stopped a young Lady, and robbed her of some Money and a Gold Watch. The Seal of the Watch was found upon him when taken.

After he had done this Robbery, he went Home to his Lodgings at the Vine ; and next Morning, being Wednesday, he went and sold the Watch for 14 Guineas in Town. Then he went to a Gunsmith in the Strand , and gave four Guineas for a Brace of Pistols, and went back again, by Water, to his Quarters at the Vine.

In the Evening he came into Grosvenor-square , and, about 9 o'Clock, stopped Mr. Nisbet in Berkeley-square , and robbed him of a Gold Watch and seven Guineas. In the same Place he stopped Lord Carisforth and Captain Proby, and robbed them both in my Lord's Coach of about nine Pounds. Presently after he stopped Mr. Dawson, and robbed him of a Gold Watch, and two Guineas.

He pawned the Watches the same Night: Dr. Dawson's, in Swallow-street , St. James's; Mr. Nisbet's, at a Pawnbroker's in Wych-street , and then went and lay with a Woman at Leicester-square Bagnio , having sent his Horse Home to his Lodgings by a Chairman.

Thursday Morning he went again to his Lodgings at Vaux-hall in a Coach; and in the Evening took a Pair of Oars, and went as far as the Temple ; where landing, he went and bought a Horse at the Bolt and Tun Inn in Fleet-street , that was advertised to be sold, and gave 12 Guineas for it. He rode it Home, and committed no Robbery on the Thursday. On Friday Night he stopped a young Lady in Brook-street , and robbed her of aGold Watch, which he pawned in Jermyn-street , St. James's , for nine Guineas. Afterwards he stopped at the Corner of Duke-street , and gave a Chairman 2 s. 6 d. to take his Horse to the Vine, and went to the Bedford-Arms Tavern in Covent-Garden ; where a favourite Woman of his met him, and they supped together. From thence they went to Leicester-square Bagnio , where they lay all Night.

The next Morning, Saturday, he went once more to his Quarters at Vaux-hall , and dined there for the last Time. After Dinner he took his new purchased Horse, and came round to Putney- Bridge into the Uxbridge Road , and committed a Robbery that Day. For when he was taken, he had nine Guineas and a Half in his Pocket, and a green Purse.

On the Night of this fatal Day, March 30, four People having agreed (without letting any Body else know their Intention) to see if they could not take this desperate Hero, who (for five Nights) had put such a Terror upon all the Quality at the upper Part of the Town, they went out to seek for him, and met Parry in Great Brook street , the Corner of David-street , within a few Yards of the Place where he committed the Robbery the Night before on the young Lady. Seeing a Man walking his Horse gently down the Street, they suspected him to be the Person they looked for, and were soon thoroughly convinced of it.

When they came up to him, one of them laid hold of his Bridle, and asked him, who he was, and where he lived. His Answer was, that he was a Gentleman come from Oxford, and lived in Bloomsbury-square. They desired to see if he had any Fire-arms about him, and feeling under his Thigh, betwixt it and the Saddle there was found a Pistol cocked and loaded. When they desired him to dismount he began to be desperate, and attempted to make off; but they soon overpowered and took him, and found the Fellow-Pistol in his Pocket. He at first set Spurs to his Horse, and just got the Start of his Captors, but they having a Bitch with them, which immediately seized the Horse by the Nose or Breast, Parry capitulated, and they secured him. When he was brought before Henry Fielding , Esq ; he confessed the whole Affair, wrote down where the Watches were pawned, and for what Money; and being found, proper Owners laid claim to them.

Being committed and brought to Newgate , Parry now thought it high Time to begin the Work of making his Peace with God, and in all Appearance has taken Pains to that Purpose. When Sessions came on, he was brought to the Bar, and pleaded not Guilty; but when the Evidence in Respect to Dr. Dawson's Robbery was given in Court, and Parry was asked what he had to say for himself, he acknowled the Validity of the Evidence, and the Jury brought him in Guilty.

Both before, and since his Trial, he has, as far as I know, (who have seen him every Day) behaved very well, and with decent Deportment, notwithstanding what the Pamphlet, intitled his Life, said to the contrary.

And, now I am speaking of that Pamphlet, I can't help saying, it is very wrong for any one to charge a Man at any Time with what they do not know him to be guilty of; but especially a Man in his Circumstances, who had enough to answer for, and no need was there of accusing him of Murder, as the Advertisment, which gave Notice of the Pamphlet's being published, did in plain Terms, though the Pamphlet itself barely insinuated Murder. To which Pamphlet Parry gave the Publick the following Advertisment as an Answer:

'Whereas a malicious or hungry Author, has pretended to give a genuine Account of the Life and Transactions of John Parry , now under Sentence of Death in Newgate ; the said John Parry takes this Opportunity to inform the Publick, that no Person can pretend to a Knowledge of either his Life, or Transactions. This pretended Account the Author has taken Care to set in a very black, but a very untrue Light: However, he has been candid enough to acknowledge, that none of it could be got from me. He has had the Presumption to trace my Travels through France into Italy , where he is pleased to say, That at Leghorn I carried on an Intrigue with another Man's Wife, and that it was thought the Man had not fair Play for his Life. The World may be assured this Assertion is false, which I declare as a dying Man. The Captain I came Home with was at Leghorn some Time before I arrived there, and will satisfy any Gentleman, who may be curious to know my Behaviour while I stay'd there, which was nothing but decent and honourable. The Captain 's Name is Benjaman Cuit , near King's-Sairs , Rotherhithe , who is a Man of Credit and Fortune.'

The above named Gentleman does declare, that he never heard any such Thing in Leghorn : And, having enquired of other Captains, who left that Country since he did, and were there when he was, they declare, none of them ever heard any Thing at all of such a Matter.

They say, moreover, had there been any such Thing done, they must have heard of it, because a Stranger, doing a bad Thing in foreign Countries, is sooner detected than a Native.

Parry made a very gay Appearance at Leghorn for three Weeks, and set sail from thence that Day Se'nnight, he apply'd for a Passage to England. He behaved much like the Gentleman, during the Voyage, but was not a little shy of letting his Name be known.

In Order to account for his Shyness he pretended, he had fled from England upon Account of a Duel; that he thought proper to abscond till it might be made up; and, as he had now received Intelligence that it was made up, he was returning to his Friends, who were very anxious for his Return. And, he pretended to be Nephew toan eminent Merchant of the same Name with the first Master he came to Town with. His Behaviour, and plausible Story of the Cause of his Flight, together with his Pretence of Relationship to such worthy Persons, as were well known to him, gained Credit for his Story with the Gentleman that brought him over, and he had a very easy Passage to England .

But, infatuated to his Ruin, 'twas but one Week's Work that put an End to all his Repose after his Arrival. Whether 'twas his Folly, or Audaciousness, that drove him on so quick upon his Fate, it were difficult to determine; nor does it matter which of the two it was, that led him to that Quarter of the Town, where he dared appear in open Defiance of all Laws.

He seemed to die resigned to his Fate, and acknowledged the Punishment due to his Crimes. Wantonness of Heart was the Inducement he had to lewd, and other bad Company. A Sense of these Things wrought in him Repentance, and he dy'd in Faith of the Promises of God through Christ, and an unworthy Member of the Church of England.

3. David Edom says, he was 30 Years of Age, and was born in the County of Fife , in the North of Scotland . He was bred up in the Way of Religion according to the Establishment of that Kingdom; and tho' he could read, yet was it difficult for him to consult the Prayer-Book of the Established Church of England, not having been used to it. However, he was willing to take Instructions from it; and to join in its Forms, when given to understand the good Tendency of that Form in general.

Edom says he was bred a Baker , and served seven Years to the Trade; that since he took to carry a Pack , and followed that Way of Life some Time; but he found it too laborious, and too much for his Strength. He says, 'tis about six Years since he came to London . At one while he served a Baker , as Journeyman, in Prince's-street , Westminster ; and, afterwards, lived, he says, as Porter with other Masters near St. Martin's-lane , and once since he came to London , carried a Pack for a while for a Linnen-Draper in Holborn .

About 12 Months ago he married, and not being able to maintain a Wife by his own Gettings, he was prompted to do what brought him to Ruin. He had not been long with his Master in Woodstreet , for robbing whom he suffered, but he began to make free with his Shop. But, as it generally turns out, The Pitcher rarely goes so often to the Well, but it returns broken at last, he was not content to steal and rob his Master's Shop once, or twice, but was resolved, seemingly, to go on 'till he was discovered. Having privately laid a-side a Parcel of Handkerchiefs on a Saturday, they were observed, but not removed from where they were laid. The People of the Shop left them as they were in order to detect a Thief, who had robbed the Shop before this was found out. On the Sunday, as he was Porter in the House, he watched anOpportunity, and took them away. Upon which, as a Suspicion had been before conceived against Edom, a Search-Warrant found the Handkerchiefs, which had been lost, in his Lodgings, and he was committed to Woodstreet-Compter .

The next Day after he sent to a Peruke-maker in St. Martin's Lane to come to him, whose Shop he had used, and with whom he had lodged, at different Times, two Bundles of Goods, under Pretence of leaving them there, till he had an Opportunity to send them to Scotland. The Man came, and Edom told him he was sent there for stealing a Trifle of Thread from his Master, and begged he would appear for him at his Trial, and bring others, whom he had been Servant to formerly, with him. The Man immediately suspected the Parcels of Goods, left at his House by Edom, were not honestly come by, so he carried the Parcels to his Masters Shop in Wood-street , and the Company owned them as their Property.

Upon this Trial the Goods were sworn to be their Property, and Edom made, if any Defence, a bad one. For, he said, he had been in Business before he came into their Service, which seemed to intimate a Claim to the Goods which were sworn to be his Master's Property; and the Jury, upon very good Evidence given them as to Facts, convicted Edom, and brought him in Guilty.

He has behaved in a very quiet Manner since, and appeared to be sensible of what he had done; acknowledged the Justice of his Sentence, but it was some Time before he could quit his Hold of a Hope he had entertained of saving his Life. But when he found all Hope was lost, the Emotions of his Breast, arising from the different Motives of Hope and Fear, began to give Way to the Appearance of his approaching Fate, and he was resigned to the Will of God, hoping to change this Life for a better.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Wednesday the 5th instant, about 9 o'Clock in the Morning, John Parry and David Edom , were brought out of Newgate , and being put into a Cart, were carried to the Place of Execution through a vast Crowd of People, the Streets all the Way being crowded on both Sides as they passed along.

When they came there, they were ty'd up to the fatal Tree, and some Time was spent in Prayer, as usual, and recommending their Souls to God, who gave them. They both behaved very much as became their unhappy Case. Parry prayed aloud, and very fervently. Edom did the same, but not with so audable a Voice; and so they continued to do, till the Cart was drawn from under them.

After hanging the usual Time, their Bodies were delivered to their Friends.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

In a few Days will be published.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words of Capt . JOHN LANCEY ,

Condemned at a Sessions of ADMIRALTY, held at the Old-Bailey , on February 24, 1754, for wilfully Burning and Sinking the Ship Nightingale , in Order to defraud the Insurers: Containing a Genuine and Impartial Narrative of the Share he had in that iniquitous Transaction.

N. B. The Public may be assured that all other Accounts will be spurious.

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and R. GRIFFITHS, at the Dunciad, in St. Paul's Church-yard, the only authorised Printers of the ORDINARY'S Account.

[Price Sixpence.]

