THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF SEVEN MALEFACTORS, VIZ.

Francis Stoner for Murder, Who was executed at Tyburn , on Monday December 17, 1764.

AND ALSO OF John Watkins , George Mitchell , William Whitton , John Moreton , William Stone , and John Weskett . Executed at Tyburn on Wednesday Jan. 9, 1765.

BEING THE First and Second Executions in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Hon. Sir William Stevenson Knt. LORD-MAYOR of the City of Lo

NUMBER I, for the said

LONDON:

Printed for M. LEWIS, in Paternoster-Row, and sold by all Booksellers and News-Carriers. [Pr. 6d.

THE Ordinary of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, &c.

B By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the City of London and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , before the Rt. Honourable Sir William Stevenson , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London ; Sir Richard Adams of the Barons of his Majesty's Court of Exchequer ; Sir John Eardley Wilmot , Knt. one of the Judges of the Court of King's Bench ; James Eyre , Esq. Recorder ; and other of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer of the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate; holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, on Wednesday the 12th, Thursday the 13th, Friday the 14th, Saturday the 15th, and Monday the 17th of December, in the fifth Year his Majesty's Reign, nine Persons were

capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death for their several Crimes in their Indictments laid, viz.

Francis Stoner , John Watkins , George Mitchell , William Whitton otherwise Hottoon , John Moreton , Thomas Stone , John Weskett , William Dunn , and Elizabeth Stanfield .

FRANCIS STONER was indicted for the wilful Murder of Elizabeth Antweezle , Spinster , on the first of December, in the House of Mr. Bullock, at the Two Brewers , in Vine-Street , Saffron-Hill . On his Trial he positively denied the Fact, and said, He believed she laid violent Hands on herself; but the Evidence being clear against him, he was found guilty, and on Saturday received Sentence of Death, and was ordered to be executed on the Monday following, and his Body to be dissected and anatomized.

He was born in Thames-Street of poor Parents, who gave him no Education. He was put Apprentice to a Waterman , and followed that Business for some Time. He married a Wife and had several Children by her. In the last War he entred on board of one of his Majesty's Ships . After he came home he received his Wages and a considerable Sum of Prize-Money. He then got acquainted with Mrs. Antweezle, and left his Wife and Children in order to live with her. From the Time of ing together, nothing but Jealousy subsisted between them, tly -occasioned Broils and Quarrels; the last of which estruction of them both.

As soon as received Sentence he was conveyed back to Newgate, where I visited him. There he declared he was guilty of the horrid Crime, which he perpetrated in the following Manner:

On Saturday Morning, Dec, 1, between four and five o'Clock, they had some Words, at which he was enraged to so high a Degree that he

attempted to strangle her, but she got out of Bed from him and of the House, with nothing on save her Shift and a Handkerchief about her Head. She went to Mrs. Evans's House and lay with her and her Husband till it was Day-light. She then sent Mrs. Evans for her Cloaths, which he sent, and soon after came himself full of Rage and Malice. As soon as Mrs. Antweezle saw him she ran into the Yard, where he followed her and attempted to stab her with a Penknife, but the Point being broke she received no Hurt: Upon this Mrs. Evans lays hold of him, and Mrs. Antweezle ran out of the House and went to Mr. Bullock's, at the Two Brewers , in Vine-Street , Saffron-Hill : he soon followed her, and asked her to go home with him; upon her Refusal, he was so enraged that he snached up a Knife, which lay on the Dresser, and gave her a mortal Wound in the Breast, of which she died instantly.

He behaved very penitent, and seemed very sorry for the horrid Crime he had committed, and for his other Sins.

On the Morning of his Execution he was brought up to the Chapel and received the holy Sacrament. About nine o'Clock he was put into a Cart and carried to Tyburn. At the Place of Execution he exhorted all to take Warning by him, and to keep from the Company of lewd Women, for they had been the Cause of his Destruction, and had brought him to this untimely End. Soon after he was turned off, earnestly praying that the Lord would have Mercy on his Soul.

On Wednesday, January the 2d, 1765, the Report of the other eight Malefactors was made to his Majesty by Mr. corder; six of them were ordered for Execution on Wednesday, Jan. the 9th viz.

John Watkins , George Mitchell , William Whitton , otherwise Hottoon , John Moreton , Thomas Stone , John Weskett . William Dunn for a Street-

Robbery, and Elizabeth Stanfield , otherwise Ogden , for stealing thitreen Guineas from the Dwelling-House of John Crofts , were respited.

JOHN WATKINS was indicted for that he, together with William Nisbett , on the 19th of October, about two in the Morning, did break and enter the House of Charles Warner , and stole one Brass Pottage-Pot, val. 6s. one Copper Tea-Kettle, val. 2s. one Brass Water-Cock, value 6d. two Pewter Dishes, value 1s. and two Pewter Plates, value 1s the Property of the said Charles Warner .

JOHN WATKINS was about 20 Years of Age: he was born of creditable Parents who gave him a good Education. His Father was a Brass-Turner , of whom he learnt the Business. When his Father failed (through Misfortunes and Losses) he was obliged to work Journey Work . He worked with Mr. Warner for some Time, but having some Words together, Mr. Warner dismissed him from his Service. He then got acquainted with William Nisbett , and with him constantly kept Company with bad Women. After some Time, being out of Work, and having no Money to support his Extravagances, he and William Nisbett agreed together to rob, in order to support them in their wicked Course of Life. Their first Attempt was in the House of Mr. Warner, which they broke open on the 9th of October, between one and two in the Morning. They first broke open the Yard Door, and then the Kitchen Door, but being afraid of being heard and discovered, they proceeded no farther: However, they took off all that they could out of the Kitchen, most of which they sold. This he declared was the Truth.

While he nder Sentence of Death he was very ill, and could not attend the Chapel; but I daily visited him in his Cell, and, although he had some Hopes of a Respite, he expressed the greatest Concern for the

Salvation of his Soul. He prayed very fervently, that God would have Mercy upon him: And I trust not in vain, for when I visited him, the Monday Morning before he suffered, he told me, That he found a sweet Composure of Mind, and a sure Trust that for the Sake of what Christ had done and suffered for him he should be saved. He continued in this happy Frame of Mind all the next Day, and till he came to the Place of Execution. I asked him there, how he found himself? he replied, "Quite composed and resigned to suffer." He also added, " I " have no Fear of Death; Death will be to me the Beginning of a better Life.

GEORGE MITCHELL was indicted for stealing a brown Mare, value 16l. the Property of Francis Manby , Esq. August the 18th, 1764.

GEORGE MITCHELL was born at Burntwood , in Essex , of poor Parents, and had no Education. He was bound Apprentice to John Turner , Fisherman , at Barking . Afterwards he went on board the Princess Royal, which he deserted, and entred on board the Illchester East-Indiaman, in which he went to the East-Indias : There he entred on board the Tygar Man of War, in which he was at the Taking of Angria. From the Tygar he was sent on board the Somerset, and was at the Retaking of Bengal. He was also in a very smart Engagement with the French Fleet at Pondicherry, and in another very desperate one with them at Fort St. David's. At the End of the War he came home and received a considerable Sum of Money, which he spent in a very little Time. He kept Company with three other Persons who, not having Money enough to support their Extravagances, said to Mitchell, " Let " us be true one to another, and we shall never want Money, for there " are a great many good Horses in the Neighbourhood." Upon this, they all agreed to be true one to another, and to steal all the Horses they

could get at. Mitchell was pitched upon to sell them. He sold a great many, and at last the Mare for which he suffered.

After Sentence was passed on him, he seemed at first to have no Sense of the Immortality of the Soul or a future State. But when I reasoned with him of Righteousness, Temperance, and Judgment to come, he trembled, and cried out, "What must I do to be saved!" I strongly exhorted him to employ the few Moments he had to continue in this World in Prayer to God for Mercy. Ever after he constantly attended the Chapel, and seemed deeply sensibly of his sinful Course of Life. So that there is some Reason to hope that he also found Favour with God.

WILLIAM WHITTON , otherwise Hottoon , was born in Devonshire , and brought up to be a Farmer ; but most of his Relations dying, he came up to London and worked in the Gardens at Thissleworth . Being out of Business he came to Town and lodged with one Mary Guest , in the same Room with one John Syms . Syms's Chest being in the Room, Whitton broke it open and took away his Cloaths and Money, for which he was condemned to die.

After Sentence was passed on him he attended the Chapel constantly, but seemed very stupid and ignorant. I endeavoured to make him sensible of his being in Danger of eternal Punishment. But he said, It was the first Offence, and that he had not been guilty of many bad Things, and had constantly kept to his Church. I told him, If he observed the Instructions he heard at Church, he never would have come to this untimely End.

JOHN MORETON and THOMAS STONE were indicted for stealing 600 lb Weight of Indigo, value 120l. and a wooden Cask, value 3s.

the Property of Mess. James Barril , and Peter Tesier , from their Warehouse, Nov. 27.

JOHN MORETON was born of reputable Parents, who gave him a tolerable Education. He was put Apprentice to a Cooper ; and, after he was out of his Time, worked with several Masters, and had the Character of a very honest Man. At the Time he committed the Crime for which he suffered, he worked with Mr. William Bullen who was Cooper to Mess. Barril and Tesier. Stone and he had been acquainted for some Time; and they both declared it was not the first Time they had taken Things, though of less Value, from the Merchants, which they did not look upon to be so heinous a Crime at that Time as it really was. They both desired that all of their Profession would take Warning from them, and not defraud others at all, lest the Habit should grow upon them, and they should at last suffer in the manner they did. Moreton, while under Sentence of Death, behaved very decently and seriously, and expressed a hearty Sorrow for his Sins, and earnestly prayed that God would have Mercy upon his Soul. He continued in this Situation of Mind till he suffered.

THOMAS STONE was born of reputable Parents, who gave him a good Education. He was bound Apprentice to a Cooper ; and, after he had served his Time, he worked Journey-work with several Masters, and had the Character of an industrious honest Man. He had been acquainted with Lenard and Moreton some Time before they committed this Robbery, which he declared was done in the following manner:

They used to frequent Mr. Barber's, a Public House in Thames-Street , where they got acquainted with J - A -, who frequently asked them if they had any thing to sell in their Way, and said, If they had, he would buy it, or help them to dispose of it. Upon this they projected how they might get a Quantity of Indigo out of Mess. Barril and Tesier's

Warehouse, in which Moreton then worked. They determined he should take the Key out of his Master's House, and that they would take away a whole Barrel, and destroy the Cask, that they might not be found out. They made this known to J - A -, who told them he would go with them, and help them to carry it off, which wicked Design they put in Practice, November 27. They then all went into the Warehouse together, took away the Indigo, and threw the Cask into the River. J - A - disposed of it for them. This Mr. Stone declared, as he was a dying Man, to be the Truth.

After he was under Sentence of Death he never denied the Robbery. He appeared deeply convinced of the Heinoushess of his Crime and the Sinfulness of Sin. He told me, He was sensible that unless God gave him true Repentance, and the Pardon of all his Sins, he must perish eternally; that he thought his Sins were so great that God would not have Mercy on him. I told him, That though his Sins were great, yet the Mercy of God in Christ Jesus was infinitely greater; and that if he truly repented of them all, and earnestly called upon God for Mercy, he would pardon him. I was informed he spent whole Nights in Prayer, and I believe God heard his Prayers and answered his Petitions; for on the Sunday Morning before he suffered, while I was preaching, he was very much affected, and prayed very earnestly. He told me afterwards he was very happy, and the Fear of Death was taken away, and that God for Christ's Sake was reconciled to him, after all that he had done. There was a visible Change wrought in him; for when any of the Prisoners behaved indecently, he reproved them, and prayed to God to shew them their Sin and Danger. He continued in this happy Frame of Mind till he gave up his Spirit, I trust, into the Hands of God.

JOHN WESKETT was indicted for stealing a Bank Note, value 130l. three Gold Snuff-Boxes, one repeating Gold Watch, value 130 l. and 400 l. in Money numbered, the Property of the Right Honourable William Earl of Harrington , in his Dwelling-House, December the 5th, 1763.

JOHN WESKETT was born in Wiltshire , of reputable Parents, who gave him a good Education. He was bound Apprentice to a Cutler , whom he served three Years; but, not liking Confinement, he ran away from his Apprenticeship. His Father bought out his Time, and sent him to some Friends in London , who got him a Place in a Gentleman's Service . He afterwards lived with several Gentlemen, had a very good Character, and was never suspected of any Thing of the Kind till he was taken up for the Robbery committed at the Earl of Harrington's, for which he suffered.

Upon his Trial there appeared many Circumstances which proved, beyond a Doubt, that he was guilty. These, with the Evidence of B - , caused the Jury to bring him in guilty.

On Monday he received Sentence of Death, after which he positively denied the Fact. I told him it was very clear that he was either guilty of the Robbery or accessary to it. He still denied it, and said, If he died, he should die innocent of the Crime laid to his Charge. When he came to attend the Chapel, he was deeply affected and wept bitterly, and seemed to have a great Concern for the Salvation of his Soul. I laboured to shew him the great Danger he was in, and told him, that if he died with a Lie in his Mouth, he could not expect to find Mercy at the Hands of God, but must look for a fearful and dreadful Judgment at the last Day. I also added, That for the Sake of those who had been accused and were innocent, he ought to declare the Truth. He then

burst into a Flood of Tears, and told me, If I would not divulge it to any one while he was living he would relate the Whole. I assured him I would not. " O Sir! said he, I am an unfortunate young Man; I have " Reason to curse the Day that I ever knew B - , D - and C - , " for they have been the Cause of my Ruin: I got acquainted with " them about eight Years ago." He added, " About six Years ago I " was out of Place, and Mr. C - at that Time lived with Mr. " M - . B - and I wanting Money, we all agreed to rob Mr. " M - 's Chambers. Mr. C - gave us an Account of the Room, " and where the Money was, and of a particular Window at which we " might get in. Mr. C - said, Seeing we are acquainted, to avoid Suspicion, he would give Warning and leave his Master and go into the " Country. At the Time appointed, Mr. B - and I took two Ladders and tied them together, and B - went into the Room and took " the Money and all the Things of value he could find. I received four " Guineas and a half of the Money. The Rings we melted down and " disposed of them with the other Things. As to the Robbery in Hatton-Garden , I was not there, although I have been concerned in many " others. About two Years and a half ago, I went to live with my " Lord Harrington, where I had a very good Place. But the Expence " I was at on Account of the Girls I kept, and the extravagant Company I frequented, made me think of committing another Robbery " that I might have Money to supply my Wants. Mr. B - came " to see me, and asked, if my Lord was not rich? I told him I believed " he was, and I would endeavour to find out where he kept his Money. " Accordingly I went, as often as I could make an Excuse, into the Room " where my Lord was often by himself. I have seen him counting his " Money and putting it up in the Bureau, which Mr. B - broke " open, more than once. Two or three Days before we committed the

" Robbery, Mr. Bevell told me, he had been for Money to pay some " Bills, and that he would have me be in the Way, that when the People came for their Money I might get somewhat of them. I told " B - of it, and desired him to come on Saturday Night and we " would have all the Money ourselves. That Night a Letter was " brought to my Lord, which I carried up, hoping to see where the " Money was laid. I saw my Lord putting up a considerable Sum, at " which I rejoiced. I went out of the Room, and stood listening at the " Door; and that I might be certain which Drawer it was put in, I " went back to ask his Lordship for a Frank. In the Evening B - " came, and was in my Lodge till all the Family were in Bed. We " then went up Stairs and broke open the Flap of the Bureau, and the " Drawer that was under it, with a Gimblet and Chissel which I had got " out of a Box in the House; and we took the Money and the other " Things mentioned in the Indictment. These B - carried off immediately. And I, in order to avoid Suspicion, left the Door open " that the Family might think some Thieves had picked the Lock and " robbed the House." This he declared to be the Truth.

He said he freely forgave every one of his Enemies. He prayed very earnestly for Mercy, and told me, that sometimes when he was praying he had hopes that God would have Mercy upon him; but when he thought of the Heinousness of his Crimes he was afraid he never would. Two Days before he was executed, he and the rest received the Holy Sacrament; and Mr. Weskett said he was much comforted.

On the Morning of Execution,

I attended them, and a little after six they were all ready to go into the Chapel; there they received the Sacrament, and spent two Hours in earnest Prayer. About nine o'Clock they were put into two Carts, and about ten they came to the Place of Execution. Mr. Weskett put a white Ribbond into his Hat, for wearing of which he gave this Reason: " I believe I am come to an untimely End, in order that my Soul might " be saved; and I look upon this as my Wedding-Day." At the Place of Execution I spent about half an Hour with them in Prayer. At eleven o'Clock they were turned off, earnestly calling upon God to receive their Souls.

N. B. This is the only true Account that hath been published, neither will there be any authentic Account of any Malefactor but by me,

JOSEPH MOORE , ORDINARY of NEWGATE .

