The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Speech of John Sutton , who was Executed at TYBURN on Saturday the 11th Day of AUGUST, 1711.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 4th, 5th, and 6th of July last past, Six Persons that were found Guilty of several Capital Crimes, received Sentence of Death; and another, viz. Peter Cartwright , Condemn'd before, and Repriev'd that Time, was called to his former Judgment: Both he and One of the Six abovemention'd, were Executed on Wednesday the 18th Day of the said Month of July last, and the rest, in number Five, then respited from Execution. Among these Five Persons there were Two, i. e. Andrew Baynes and John Sutton , who were Repriev'd only to some appointed Days, viz. the former to the 8th instant, on which Day he was Executed accordingly, and the latter (namely, John Sutton ) to this Day.

What my Care was to make them sensible of their approaching Dissolution, and to prepare them for a happy Departure out of this World (where they had sinned so much) and be admitted into a blessed State in the World to come (where they should Sin no more) I have mentioned in a late Paper; wherein I give a large Account of Andrew Baynes , who as he was concerned in several Facts with the Person that is the chief Subject of these melancholy Lines, so I shall have occasion to mention him again in them; which, for the most material part, are the Copy of a Paper deliver'd me by him, the day on which he dy'd; John Sutton being present, and ascertaining the Truth of those Facts therein contain'd.

This John Sutton , was condemn'd, together with the aforesaid Andrew Baynes , for Assaulting, Robbing, and Abusing Mr. John Storer upon the Queen's Highway, between Islington and Old-street , taking from him some Money and other Things. He owned, he was Guilty of that Fact, and that he, Andrew Baynes , and another Person not not yet taken, did joyntly commit it; himself being the first that assaulted Mr. Storer, and let off a Pistol, which, he said, he intended should not hurt any Body, but only give Notice to the other two (not far off) to come to his Assistance: That the said Andrew Baynes ty'd Mr. Storer's Hands, and W. M. (the other Accomplice not yet taken) struck him on the Head with the Butt-end of a Pistol he had; they being armed with Swords and Pistols. This is what he said as to this Fact, for which he begg'd Mr. Storer's Pardon. As to other Matters, he was not willing at first to make himself (though it seems he was) a great Offender; saying, that this was the first Robbery he ever committed; adding, That he was about 30 years of age, born at Norwich : That he had been well brought up by his Parents, who lived Honestly and with Repute: That, indeed, he had been taught better things than he had practis'd; That he had often mispent and profaned the Lord's Day; That he had been guilty of the Sin of Uncleanness, and many other Vices, the remembrance of which was very grievous to him; and that he heartily repented of them all, wishing he had been so wise as to serve GOD, and honestly follow'd his Calling, which was that of a Baker. Thus he accus'd himself of his ungodly Deeds and Extravagancies in general: But did not come up to any particular Account of those Robberies which he had committed, till I not only press'd him to it, but mention'd them to him: And though he would not plainly acknowledge, yet he faintly deny'd, That some years ago, he stole a Watch, and was committed to Dover-Castle ; out of which he having made his Escape, was never try'd for that Robbery. But this he particularly confess'd, That he was Guilty of all those Robberies mention'd in the following Paper.

The True Copy of a PAPER deliver'd to me by Andrew Baynes , in my Vestry (or Closet) in Newgate , a little before he was carried to the Place of his Execution, on Wednesday last, being the 8th instant.

A Particular Account of the Robberies committed by me Andrew Baynes , in Company with John Sutton and W. M. which I heartily desire of Almighty GOD to forgive me; and humbly ask Pardon of all those Gentlemen under-written, which I have, with Sutton and M. offended, especially that Worthy Gentleman, Sir David Hamilton , whose Pardon I humbly ask, and humbly desire he will forgive me, as I forgive the World.Begun on Saturday March 31. 1711.

WE robb'd Mr. Potter, at the two Men hanging in Chains near Bow , and took from him a Watch, Rings, and other Effects, with a Snuff-Box.

2dly, We robb'd between Islington and High-gate , Governour Beal, with one Henry Harding , and took from them two Coats, One Blew trimm'd with Black, and the other a Light Colour'd Coat, trimm'd with Silver, One Pound Eight Shillings in Money, and a Tortoiseshell Tobacco Box; which I own. But there was Thirty-two Guineas in Gold, which the said Governour lost, which I suppose Sutton and M - shared together: For, as I am a Dying Man, I know nothing of them.

3dly, We robb'd a Gentlewoman and a Porter, between Kingsland and Shoreditch : We took from the said Gentlewoman Six Guineas in Gold, and 14 s. in Silver, and two Gold Rings. We met a Taylor at the same time, and upon the same Road, and took some small Effects.

[NB. John Sutton observ'd, that there was a Mistake in this Article, as to the Date only; for, to his best remembrance, the Taylor was robb'd 3 days after the aforemention'd Gentlewoman. And he said also, That between these two Robberies, he committed another (without Baynes) about that Place, on a Servant-man with a Basket in his Hand, from whom he took a small matter.]

4thly, We robb'd a Single Gentleman by the Brick-kiln next Tyburn, and took from the said Gentleman a Silver-Watch, and a pair of Silver-Buckles, and some Money.

5thly, We robb'd Mr. Thomas Baker , and took two Queen ANN's Guineas, and 7 s. 6 d. in Silver, a Silver-Tobacco-Box, a pair of Silver-Buckles, and three Gold-Rings, and some other Effects from the said Gentleman.

6thly, We robb'd that Worthy Gentleman Sir David Hamilton , and his Man near Pancras-Wells , and took from Sir David one Diamond-Ring, a Silver-hilted Sword, inlaid with Gold, and some Money, with other Effects. The Robbery I own; But for his Man's Snuff-Box, as I am a Dying Man, I know nothing of it.M. was not concern'd in this. 7thly, We robb'd a Gentleman coming from Hackney , upon Cambridge-Heath , and took from the said Gentleman a small Parcel.May 22. 1711 8thly, The Robbery which I am condemn'd to suffer Death for, upon Mr. Storer, between Islington and Old-street , and took Eight Shillings in Money; he having his other Effects again.

These are all the Robberies I have committed since I have been in England , [meaning since his Return from Flanders , as he express'd it to me] and Sutton and M. were along with me. And as I am a Dying Man, this is nothing but the Truth. So help me God.

ANDREW BAYNES , Aug. 7. 1711.

When that Paper was deliver'd to me by Andrew Baynes , John Sutton (as I said before) being then present, own'd the Truth of its Contents. Since that time I read it to him again more than once; and thereupon he again declar'd, That the Facts were all true, and he was concerned in every one of them: But he said withal, That he had none of the 32 Guineas taken from Governour Beal. So that it seems W. M. kept them all for himself.

This Sutton, I found, was under a very great disappointment, as having (even to the last) been in expectation of a farther Reprieve; hoping (but in vain) that his Money (which he said was no less than 100 Guineas, which he had ready to give to save his Life) might do great Feats that way; but he was much mistaken therein. I wish other Offenders would take Warning by this; and in good earnest prepare for Death, which is certain; seriously considering, that such a Preparation will do them no harm, but a great deal of good, whether they live, or dye.

Before this Malefactor was carry'd (as he was this Day from Newgate in a Cart) to Tyburn , he mightily lamented his Sinful Life, and begg'd Pardon of God, and of all the Persons he had wrong'd, especially of his Father, and other Friends, on whom he had brought this great Shame. All he now could do, was to pray for them; as he did for his own Soul, imploring God's Mercy and Forgiveness, and that all his wicked Deeds and Iniquities might be wash'd and done away in the Blood of Christ.

At the Place of Execution, I attended him for the last time; I exhorted him more and more to repent, and to stir up his Heart to God. I pray'd by him, sung some Penitential Psalms with him, and made him rehearse the Apostles Creed. Then recommending his Soul to God, I withdrew. And he having spoken to the People to this Effect, viz. That they would take care not to break the Sabbath-day, nor keep lewd Company, as he had done, and, That they would pray for his departing Soul. At this there was a great Shout made by the Standers-by.

Afterwards he betook himself to his private Devotions, for which he had some time allow'd him: And that being over, the Cart drew away, and he was turn'd off, while he thus call'd upon GOD. Lord be merciful unto me! Lord have mercy upon me! Lord JESUS have mercy upon me! &c.

NB. Before he was carry'd out of Newgate , he gave me a Letter, which he had prepar'd for me; and at the same time told me, That his right Name was John Thurton ; and that though he was committed by the Name of John Sutton , yet he never went by that Name before; the Copy of which Letter is as follows, viz.

I Have brought all my Misfortunes on my self: And tho' I had the tenderest of Fathers, yet my own Extravagant Humour led me into Uncleanness, Drunkenness, and the Unlawful Means to support both, which has brought me to this Unfortunate End. I must own, I make this particular Observation; That when I first left GOD, and did not observe his Day, He left me to be led away to my utter Ruin here, and I must only rely on the immense Mercy of my Creator, thro' the Merits of my blessed Redeemer: And I beg Forgiveness of all the World, but more especially my Father and Family. I beg the World may not reflect on my Wife and Children; she has been a tender Wife and Mother. This is the first time I ever was charg'd with injuring the least Soul; and the Lord have Mercy on me, and comfort my Wife, and help my Children.

Aug. 11. 1711.

John Thurton .

This is all the Account here to be given of this dying Person, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Saturday, Aug. 11. 1711.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , who formerly lived at the Bible in Creed-Lane , is removed to the Bible and Ball in Ave-Mary-Lane near Ludgate , where all Booksellers and others may be furnisht with Bibles and Common-Prayers of all Sorts, with Cuts or without, Ruled or Unruled, Bound in Turky Leather or Plain. Mr. Sturt's Cuts Curiously Engrav'd; also other fine Cuts fitted for all Sizes and Common-Prayers. The Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. The Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and French Common-Prayers. Tate and Brady's New Version of Psalms, with the New Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Statutes at large, in Three Volumes. Washington and Wingate's Abridgment of them. The Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, in Folio and Octavo. The New Translation of AEsops Fables. Also Bp. Beveridge's Works, in 5 vol. And Dean Stanhope on the Epistles and Gospels, in 4 vol. All which Books and Cuts are likewise sold by J. Baker in Mercers-Chapel

This Day is Publish'd,

The Fourth Volume of the Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , which Compleats the whole Sett, where likewise may be had the 3d Edition of the 3 other Volumes, with a large Supplement, great Part thereof never before Printed: All Corrected with large Additions, and Tables to each Vol. With the Life and Character of Mr. Brown, and his Writings, written by Dr. James Drake . Printed for S. Briscoe, and sold by J. Graves in St. James's-street, J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall, and J. Woodward in Scalding-Alley against Stocks-market. Where may be had a new Translation of the Works of Petronius Arbiter, in 3 Parts. With the Life of the Author. Written by Mons. St. Evremont, and a Key to the Work. Adorn'd with Cuts.

A Table Calculated by. Mr. Tho. Fletcher , to shew the Interest on Exchequer Bills and Bank Seal'd Bills, at 2 d. per Diem by Inspection. Enter'd in the Hall Book, pursuant to Act of Parliament. Price 6 d. Sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-Hall.

