The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words of the Malefactors, who were Executed at Tyburn, on Monday, the Twentieth of this Instant May, 1728.

BY Virtue of His Majesty's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, at the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , (before the Right Honourable Sir EDWARD BEECHER , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable Sir Robert Raymond , Knt . Lord Chief Justice of the Kings-Bench ; the Honourable Mr. Justice Price; the Honourable Mr. Baron Hale; the Honourable Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London; and John Raby , Esq ; Serjeant at Law ; and others His Majesty's Justices of Goal-Delivery, and Oyer and Terminer aforesaid; together with several of His Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the City of London, and County of Middlesex,) on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday, the 1st, 2d, 3d, 4th, 6th, and 7th of May, 1728, in the First Year of His Majesty's Reign.

Twenty two Men, viz. Christopher-Thomas Rawlins , Isaac Ashly , alias Aslien , John Rowden , alias John Hulks , Edward Benson , George Gale , Thomas Crowder , William Russel , William Holden , Robert Crouch , James Toon , William Septon , John Hornby , Lawrence Clinsmith , Benjamin Johnson , Richard Nichols , Joseph Johnson , Anthony Beadle , Hether Landel , John Cobbs , Joseph Price , James Smith , and James Perre ; and Seven Women, viz. Mary Prince , Susanna Vine , Elizabeth Burden , Elizabeth Lewis , Margaret Pendergrass , Mary Hendron , and Mary Taylor , alias Dennis , were, by the Jury found guilty of Capital Crimes; and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

While under Sentence, they were instructed, How, that by Nature, they were Enemies to God: The Scripture representing to us, that the Imagination of Man's Heart is wholly set in him to do Evil; and that from this corrupt Principle, proceeded all the Irregularities of Life, which had entail'd so much Shame and Disgrace upon them: Therefore I endeavoured to convince them, that in order to be freed from their Sins, it was necessary to search into the Wickedness of their Hearts, which was the Cause of the manifold Failings of their Life; for that out of the Heart proceeds all evil Thoughts, Murders, Adulteries, Fornications, Thefts, False Witness, Blasphemies, Matth. 15. 19. Thence I exhorted them to come to God, under a deep Sight and Sense of Sin, Original and Natural: For while we are not sensible of Sin, it cannot be suppos'd, that we will seek a Saviour to save us from Sin, who is our Lord Jesus Christ, the only Mediator betwixt God and Man. Thence I took occasion to press upon them the absolute Necessity of a Saving Faith in Christ, the Son of God, and Saviour of Mankind, ev'n a Lively Faith, attended with Good Works, bringing forth manifold Fruits unto new Obedience, Holiness, and Virtue.

Many of them appearing Obstinate, I instructed them, that it was not only Expedient, but Necessary to confess their Sins, especially Those for which they suffer'd, as in the first Place of God, who was chiefly offended, so in the next Place, to Man, whom they had so very much wrong'd, since this was the main Reparation they were capable to make. This Subject I illustrated to them from several weighty Considerations taken from St. James 5. 16. Confess your Faults one to another. I also told them, that there being Two Christian Sacraments, Baptism, wherein we were initiated in the Christian Faith to deny Ourselves to the World, the Flesh, and the Devil; and the Lord's Supper, which is a lively Representation of the Body and Blood of our Lord Jesus, exhibited to us in a familiar Manner adapted to our Senses. This Sacrament, as from other Texts, so particularly from Rev. 19. 7. - For the Marriage of the Lamb is come, I explain'd to them.

While these and many such Instructions were given them, in Chappel all of them comply'd with the Worship, and made regular Responses: But some of them at Times were very undecent in their Carriage, laughing and playing the Fool in a very extravagant manner. Robert Crouch was most guilty this Way, and disturb'd some of his Fellow Prisoners about him. When I reprov'd him sharply for it, he said, that it was out of no ill Design, and that he could not help it: I told him that it was a Temptation of Satan, and that it shew'd the Corruption of his Heart very much. After many Admonitions and Reproofs, he gave it over. Crowder and Rawlins at several Times flew into very violent Passions, and upon trifling Occasions struck Hornby; for which being seriously reprov'd, they promis'd not to do so any more, and declar'd their Grief for the Offence given. Joseph Prince was much afflicted with Sickness, as was Margaret Pendergrass . When I visited them in the Cells, they appeared Devout and Penitent; and when at Chapel, they behav'd themselves Decently. Lawrence Clinsmith , a Dutch Boy, appeared to be Penitent, and sensible of his Offence; but being in a High Fever, never came to Chapel. James Parr came only once to Chapel; and when I visited him in the Cell, he was so Sick that he could scarce speak, and so Deaf that he could hear but little; only by his outward Behaviour, he appeared to be Sorrowful for his Sins, and willingly comply'd with Worship, when I pray'd for him. He died in the Cell on Monday Morning, the 13th Day of May.

In the Cells, Crowder, Rawlins, Hulks, alias Rowden, and several of them, sometimes behav'd themselves most Irregularly and Undecently, Singing and Cursing in such a manner, as was very offensive to every good Christian. The Street-Robbers, one with another, were Originals for Wickedness. Mary Taylor , alias Dennis , on Sunday, the 12th of May, being drunk, spoke so much and so loud, that the Keepers were oblig'd to take her out of the Chapel.

Upon Wednesday, the 15th of May, the Report of the above-named 28 Malefactors being made to His Majesty in Council: Joseph Prince for feloniously breaking and entring into the House of Edward Hoar , and for stealing Goods and Cloaths to the Value of 4 l., the Property of the said Edward Hoar ; Anthony Beadle for stealing 3 s. 6 d. from the Person of Anne Powel , on the 1st of March last; Mary Jenkins for stealing 4 Guineas, a Gold Ring, and a Bathmetal Box from John Anthony ; Elizabeth Burden for stealing 5 Broad Pieces of Gold, 2 Guineas, and a Silver Two-pence, 10th of April last, the Property, and in the House of Mary Bonner ; Susanna Vine for stealing a Linen Bag, Value 2 d. a Seal, Value 12 d. a French Crown, Five Half Guineas, a pair of Steel Buckles, and some Silver, from the Person of Thomas Dean , on the 1st of March last; Benjamin Johnson , for stealing a Grey Gelding, Value 40 s., on the 15th of January last, the Property of James Crew ; Lawrence Clinsmith , for stealing 9 China Dishes, a Silver Porringer, 4 Silver Forks, 2 Silver Candlesticks, 2 Silver hafted Knives, and several other Valuable Goods, the Property of Bernard Count Welderen ; Joseph Johnson , for privately stealing a Gold Ring, Value 15 s. out of the Shop of George Joyns ; and Elizabeth Lewis , for feloniously stealing 5 Gold Rings set with Diamonds, Value 9 l. 9 Serjeants Rings, Value 2 l. 14 s. 2 Guineas, a Broad Piece, and several other Valuable Things, the Property of John Raby , Esq ; Serjeant at Law , on the 9th of February last, received His Majesty's Most Gracious Reprieve.

The remaining Nineteen, viz. Christopher-Thomas Rawlins , John Rowden alias Hulks , Isaac Ashby alias Astien , John Hornby , Edward Benson , George Gale , Thomas Crowder , James Toon , William Russel , William Holden , and Robert Crouch , Street-Robbers; William Septon and John Cobbs , for the Highway; Hether Landell alias Vincent , James Smith , Richard Nichols , Mary Hendron and Margaret Pendergrass , and Mary Taylor alias Davis or Dennis , were order'd for Execution. When all Expectations of Life were past, Those who had been most Audacious and Insolent before, behav'd themselves with greater Decency in the Chapel; but they were so inur'd to Wickedness, that at some Times they could not abstain from flying into the most violent Passions when in the Cells, upon the least Uneasiness.

For Information of those who desire to know any thing further about their Confessions and Behaviour, the following Narrative is intended.

William Russell , Robert Crouch , and William Holden , of St. Giles's in the Fields , were indicted for assaulting Martha Hyde on the Highway, and taking from her a Broad-Cloth Coat, value 40 s. a Looking-Glass, value 30s. a Gown, Apron, and other Goods, value 30s., on the 8th of December last.

Against these 3 Persons, James Dalton was produc'd an Evidence, who depos'd, That on the 8th of March last, about 9 o'Clock at Night, they overtook the Prosecutor, Martha Hyde , in Fleet-street , and seeing her to have a Bundle with her, they resolv'd to snatch it from her; but not having an Opportunity to do it there, they follow'd her into Lincolns-Inn-Fields , were Crouch alias Bob the Butcher, knock'd her down, and then Russell ran away with the Bundle, in which were contain'd several Aprons, a Woman's Morning Gown, 3 Black Hoods, and a Looking-Glass, which last, in opening the Bundle, fell down and was broke in pieces; all the Remainder was sold to Sarah Watts (one who buys stol'n Goods, and in the Cant of the Society is call'd a Lock:) but not having well examined the Things before the Sale, they were mortified afterwards to hear, there was 40 s. in Specie rap'd up in a Rag in the said Bundle. - Martha Hyde the Prosecutor depos'd to the Purpose aforesaid, That she was knock'd down in Lincolns-Inn-Fields , and the Goods before mentioned taken from her. - Russel

Lomew Nichols depos'd, That he saw Russell and Crouch at a Brandy Shop soon after the Transactions before-mentioned, who quarrelling betwixt themselves, Russel said to Crouch, if you meddle with Nichols, I'll cut the Coat off your Back, for it is the Woman's Coat which I knock'd down in Lincolns-Inn-Fields , and I have as much Right to it as you; it appear'd that Crouch pawn'd an old Coat to pay for the Alteration of that he had then on, and that at first, it had on a picked Cape of Cloth, which was taken off, and a Velvet one put on in its stead. - Mr. Willis, who took Russell, depos'd, when he apprehended him, That Russell acknowledg'd the Goods before-mentioned, were Stole & sold for about 1 l. 2 s.; but said, he did not value it, because he should die in the Company of such brave Fellows. Upon the Whole, he was found Guilty.

1. William Russell , was, as he said, descended of Honest Parents, who were People of Repute and Substance, who had given him a tolerable Education. His Father was a Man unmindful of his Family, and by his Negligence, lost a considerable Estate in Money, which belong'd to him; and as his Substance decreas'd, he took less Care of his Son's Education, leaving him expos'd to the World, and went to Ireland, where he now resides. He confess'd himself to be guilty of the Robbery of which he was Convicted; and said, that he had not follow'd that way of Life above three Quarters of a Year, before he was apprehended; and that there was no Pretence of Necessity for his betaking himself to such a Course; the only Cause having been his own Wickedness. He was a resolute, audacious Fellow, but of a superior Sense to most, if not all his Unfortunate Companions. Once in the Cell, he said to William Holden confin'd in the same Cell with him, with such an indifferent Air, and yet with no Appearance of Prophaneness, I'll provide a sufficient Coach for carrying off our Bodies from the Place of Execution, and your Fraternity (Holden having been a Hackney Coachman ) will preserve our Bodies from being carried off by Violence; to the Reasonabless of which Proposal Holden assented. This they agreed upon, without the least Alteration of their Countenance, altho' in a Matter of such Consequence, as that of leaving this World, and entering upon an Eternity of Happiness, or Misery. He declar'd, that (in his Opinion) the Street-Robberies would be more frequent than formerly; and that the Robbers were resolv'd to shew, by their Proceedings, that they were not all hang'd; and that Dalton would have had him turn'd Evidence against his Accomplices, but thinking this too Mean and Cowardly, he refus'd it. He further declar'd, That when Black Isaac, alias Isaac Ashley was hang'd, Gentlemen might walk the Streets without danger of losing their Handkerchiefs, for that the said Black Isaac and Ben. Branch , who was lately Executed, were the two greatest Masters in that Profession; and that the said Isaac Ashley would frequently get in an Evening, in two or three Hours, to the Value of 15 or 16 Shillings, and would make Sortments or Allotments of them of all Prices, from 2 d. to 2 s. 6 d. each; as well as any Milliner or Dealer in London. Russell was naturally an Audacious Resolute Fellow, and commonly express'd himself with a deal of Freedom, and without any Offence in my Presence, excepting that once in the Cell being angry at something, he swore to one of the Keepers, for which I reprov'd him, and he beg'd God Pardon. His Education having been better than what most of his Companions had got, he was not so Rude, but more Civil in his Deportment than They. He own'd, that he had been a very great Sinner, and that he was guilty of all Sins, but Murder; and that his Sentence was most just according to Law. He declar'd himself sincerely Penitent for all his Offences; that he died in Peace with all the World, and in the Faith of being Sav'd by the Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ.

2. Robert Crouch , as he said, about 20 Years of Age, Born at Dunstable of Honest Parents, who gave him good Education, and when of Age, bound him to one Widow Thompson in Newgate-Market , with whom he serv'd his Time, but not willing to lead a quiet and settled Life, he apply'd himself to Gaming, which brought him into a sett of the worst of Company, and this prov'd his Ruin. He confess'd the particular Fact, of which he was convicted, and that he had not follow'd the business of Thieving long. The Evidence against him had been one of his chief advisers to Wickedness, and that there was not the least Shadow of occasion for his betaking himself to such wicked Courses, since he wanted nothing, and his Father intended very soon to set him up in his own business, which was a Butcher.

When His Majesty's Proclamation came out for apprehending Street-Robbers, he foreseeing the danger, agreed to go a four years Voyage to Sea, but upon Dalton's Information he was Apprehended before he could put his design in Execution. He told me, that he had join'd himself to a Society for improvement in religious Principles and Practices; but to this he did not prove an ornament. In the Cell, a Friend desir'd him seriously to prepare for Eternity, and not to entertain any hopes of a Reprieve; he replied, we shall certainly be all Repriev'd on Monday next, about two of the Clock. He behav'd always with abundance of civility, but that he Smil'd too often in the Chapel, which disturb'd some of his Neighbours, this, he said, was a natural Weakness, which he could not help. I represented to him the greatness of his Sin, as committed against much Light and Knowledge. He acknowledged himself among the chief of Sinners, that he was griev'd for betaking himself to such a wicked Life, which had brought him to a shameful Death, that he believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, repenting truly of all his Sins, and dying in Peace with all Mankind.

3. William Holden , about 28 Years of Age, of mean Parents, who gave him but little education, and were not able to put him to any particular Trade, had gone to Sea some time, but the ordinary Business he follow'd was driving of Hackney Coaches . He appear'd to be a Fellow of a civil Temper, but adicting himself to lewd Company, this led him into all his after miseries and misfortunes. At first he denied the Fact of which he was convicted, but afterwards Russel openly owning it, he could not deny his being concern'd in committing that Robbery. He said, that he had not follow'd the trade of Thieving long, but that he always had a coveteous mind, affecting an idle and loose Life most. He was more sober and civil in his carriage than several of the Street-Robbers. He declar'd, that he believ'd to be sav'd only through the merits of Jesus Christ, that he was heartily griev'd for, and repented of all his Sins, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

Christopher Rawlins , alias Thomas Rawlins , Isaac Ashley , alias Aslebey , and John Rowden , alias Hulks , were Indicted for Assaulting Mr. Francis Williams on the Highway, and taking from him a Silver Watch, value 3 l. two Guineas and a Moidore, on the 24th of Feb. last.

It appear'd the Prosecutor going in a Coach in the Night time, between Watling-street and St. Paul's School , he heard the Coachman was order'd to stop, when a Man came up to the side of the Coach, presented a Pistol, and demanded his Money, then four others came in the like manner, and offering their Pistols, one said they had no time to loose, thrust his Hand to his Fob, and took his Watch and Money. The Watch was produc'd in Court by Mr. Jones, who said he had it from Dalton, Dalton was call'd as an Evidence, and depos'd that himself, with the three Prisoners, and another Person not yet taken, attack'd the Coach, that himself went up first, then Rowden took the Watch, and himself took the Money, that Rawlins and himself Secreted one Guinea of it from his Companions, and the Watch was pawn'd for two Guineas more. Mr. Willis depos'd, that having receiv'd Information of several disorderly Persons, he went in search of them, and took Dalton, who making an Ingenious Confession, desir'd to be admitted an Evidence, and inform'd against the Prisoners, and then told him of their having Rob'd Mr. Williams, shew'd him a Pistol, and said Rawlins had the Fellow of it, and told where the Prisoners were, who were apprehended accordingly, Rawlins and Rowden stood upon their Defence Sword in Hand, but Ashley made no resistance, but endeavour'd to hide himself under the Bed, that they found the Pistol Dalton had describ'd, loaded with a Slug, correspondent to that taken from Dalton; his Evidence was confirm'd by Mr. Willis's Brother, and the Prisoners had nothing to say in their Defence, but a downright denial of the Fact, and a pretended Ignorance of Dalton's Person; but Mr. Wyat prov'd they were well acquainted, and all Lodg'd at his House. The Fact was fully prov'd, and the Jury found them all three Guilty.

4. Christopher Rawlins , 22 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Town, who gave him good Education, and when of Age, put him out Apprentice to a Silversmith in Town, to whom he serv'd his Time; but it seems he (as is customary to them, who fall into these unhappy misfortunes) falling into the basest of Company, who advis'd him to follow their reprobate courses, could not the common fate of a Life so desperately Wicked. He was a young Man of a pretty quick understanding, but whatever his natural Endowments might be, they were certainly over-clouded, if not funk and lost by his most vicious way of Life. Most times at Chapel he behav'd himself gravely and made his responses regularly, but was too ready to Smile as some others of them did; and once in time of Worship fell a beating Hornby upon some discontent, not worth mentioning: For this they were both taken out of Chapel; and when I represented to them the inconsiderate brutishness of such a Sin; He acknowledg'd the same, promising never to do the like for the future. When I spoke to him privately, he always own'd himself Penitent, but (as I was inform'd) he frequently behav'd himself in the Cells with great undecency; particularly, as his fellow Criminal Russel inform'd me, once as he was Swearing and showing the height of Passion and Fury upon the least, or rather no occasion; He and some other of the Prisoners desir'd him to be quiet, and make some suitable preparation for Death. He said, what does it signify to prepare, since they had past such a wicked Life in the World, and now having so short a Time to live, it was needless to Repent; for he despair'd of God's Mercy and knew he should be Damn'd. He could not deny that he said so, and beg'd God's Pardon for it. When I spoke to him, he behav'd with abundance of Civility, and his Education having been pretty good, he understood the necessary fundamental Principles of Christianity indifferently. He appear'd to have been an acute Fellow, but exercis'd his Wit and Invention upon mischief. Rawlins acknowledg'd all the three

Robberies of which he was convicted, that he had been one of the chief of Sinners; for his Sins he beg'd Pardon of God and Man, declar'd his Faith in Christ the only Saviour of the World, that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

5. Isaac Ashby alias Aslien , which last (as he told me) was his true Name, 26 Years of Age, of Honest Parents, who gave him Education at School, according to his Station, and put him to a Weaver in Spittle-Fields , which Trade he follow'd, and might have had his Living very well that way, but preferr'd an idle Life to an Honest industrious Course; and falling in with Gamesters, they led him head long to his Destruction. He was one of the most dextrous Pick pockets about Town, but did not thrive long at Robbing on the Street, Dalton's Information putting a slop to that. He was to the last, one of the most obdur'd unconcern'd Malefactors that ever I saw, and appear'd to have been a rude surly Fellow. He confest himself to have been a very wicked Liver, and that he had committed a number of Robberies and innumerable lesser Thefts, (but the particular Fact of which he was convicted he denied, which Rawlins and Benson own'd themselves to have done, and they said, that he knew nothing of it) for which and his most licentious wicked Life, he beg'd Pardon of God and Man; one could scarce discover any outward Signs of repentance in Him, till within a Day of his Death he began to relent a little. He declar'd his Faith in Christ, that he repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

6. John Rowden , alias Hulks , which last was his true Name, 24 Years of Age, had good Education from his Parents, but improv'd it to the worst of purposes, giving himself up wholly to wickedness, having been addicted to all manner of Vices, and thus being void of the fear of God, and regard to Man: He associated himself to a Gang of the most notorious Thieves and Robbers about Town, who speedily brought him to his fatal End. He was much of the same Temper with Aslien, but a little more Civil. He own'd himself guilty of the two Robberies, of which he with Rawlins and Aslien were convicted; that he had been guilty of all manner of Sins; that his Sentence was most just; that he believ'd to be Sav'd thro' the merits of Jesus Christ; Repenting of all his Sins, and that he died in Peace with all the World.

Edward Benson , alias Brown , alias Boyston , George Gale , alias Kiddy George, and Thomas Crowder , Indicted for assaulting James Colvert , and taking from him a Silver Watch, val. 40 s. and 5 s. in Money, on the 10th of April last.

7. Edward Benson , 24 Years of Age, descended of Honest Parents, who gave him good Education, and afterwards put him out Apprentice to a Silver Wiredrawer , but he did not serve out his Time, being of a wild ungovernable Temper, and inclin'd to follow loose Company; having left his Master, he follow'd his Business at times, and at other times, made unlawful Shifts. He Married a Wife, but soon wearying of her, he took another Wife; and as I visited him in the Cell, asking something about his Crimes and the conduct of his Life, he said that he had not been so very extravagant in his Life, as a great many other Criminals are, but that he had fail'd in one Point, which was Marrying two Wives, for which he pray'd God to forgive him; saying, here they are before you. I ask'd the two Women if it was so? they said, that they were both his lawfully Married Wives, the latter one said, she did not know of the first Marriage, but that he decoy'd her into that Snare, by making a number of impudent Lies. They seem'd to be Friendly, and not to entertain any grudge at one another. I exhorted him to repent of that Sin of deliberate Adultery; he said, he did of all his Sins, and particularly that one. He was the mildest and Civilest of all the Street-Robbers; behav'd himself with great Devotion in Chapel, never using any undecent carriage, as too many of them did, and his natural Temper seem'd so good, that the miscarriages of his Life in probability were rather to be imputed to the bad advice and example of others, than to his own inclination. He appear'd to be a sincere penitent, believing that God would Pardon his Sins for Christ's Sake, and declaring that he died in Peace with all the World.

8. George Gale alias Kiddy George, about 17 Years of Age, born of Honest Parents, who took care of his Education at School, and instructed him in the Christian Religion, and afterwards put him to a House Carpenter or Joyner , which Business he never follow'd; but was one of the most wicked, cross, aud disobedient Boys upon Earth; and married without his Parents Consent: He had committed many Robberies, and was a constant Thief for a considerable Time; only he never own'd the Robbery of which he was convicted, and said, that Neaves swore him falsely into it, knowing the former Proceedings of his Life would make his Testimony against him more easily credited. He wept much, and was grosly ignorant, having forgotten all the good Instructions his Parents or Masters had given him. He declar'd himself Penitent; that he suffer'd most justly for his Naughty Life; that he believ'd in Christ his Redeemer, and was in Peace with all Mankind.

9. Thomas Crowder , 22 Years of Age, of honest Parents, who gave him good Education, and bound him to a Cabinet-maker . Before he was out of his Time he went to Sea , and improv'd himself in Navigation; and being lately come Home from a Voyage, meeting accidentally with Neaves, the Evidence, at Rotherhith , he got him engag'd into his Company for 3 or 4 Days, attending Neaves at his Wedding; and upon Pretence that Neaves, and he should afterwards join in carrying on a small Trade to France and Holland, 'till they were all apprehended at a Publick-House there: But he said, he swore him falsely into the Robbery of which he was convicted, and that he never was a Thief or Robber. He liv'd two Years with a Woman who was reputed his Wife; but they were not married. He acknowledg'd himself a great Sinner; that God had, in Justice, afflicted him. He died in the Faith of Christ, and in Peace with all the World.

James Toon , of St. Paul's Shadwell indicted, for that he, together with George Gale , Edward Brown , alias Benson , alias Berson , did assault James Flemming , on the Highway, &c. and taking from him a Silver Watch, value 50 s. and 2 Guineas in Money, on the 3d of April last.

James Toon , Twenty-five Years of Age, had good Education for a common Man; when of Age, he went to Sea ; and when at Home he was a Bargeman . He declar'd, that as he was a dying Man, in a few Days or Hours to answer to God, that Neaves swore falsely against him, and this he affirm'd; adding, that he never had been Thief or Robber. He had no Friends to own him; and behav'd himself always with a deal of Decency and outward Signs of Repentance. He understood the first Principles of Christianity better than many of his Rank; appeared to have some good Dispositions in him; declar'd himself sincerely penitent for all his Sins, which he confess'd to have been very great; that he had a confident Hope of being Sav'd, thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ; and that he forgave all the World, as he expected Forgiveness at the Hand of God.

John Hornby of St. Gregory , in the Ward of Castle-Baynard , was indicted for assaulting Edward Ellis on the Highway, and taking from him a Silver Watch, val. 4 l. and 2 Guineas in Money, on the 3d of January last.

John Hornby , about 21 Years of Age, of honest Parents, who educated him at School, and put him to a Joyner : But he marrying a Woman, and taking himself to wicked Company, went altogether astray, and prov'd a most disobedient and naughty Child. He confess'd, that he had been a notorious Thief and Pick-pocket for a good part of his Life; but as for Street and Highway Robberies, altho' not innocent, yet he had never been much guilty that way. As to the particular Fact for which he suffer'd, he denied, that he was accessary to that Robbery, which indeed, Benson, and another, who assisted in it, affirm'd. He own'd, that he had been guilty of innumerable petty Thefts, such as stealing Handkerchiefs, and the like; but for other more violent Attempts, such as Street-Robberies, he said, that he never committed 'em. He was more Civil than most of them. And as for the Differences which happen'd between him and two others in Chapel, at different Times, he declar'd, that he did not occasion them; and that they were only the effect of their Passion, which instigated them to beat him, for no Fault of his. He frequently wept, and pretended Penitence, declaring, that he hop'd and believ'd to be sav'd, only thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ, and that he died in perfect Peace with all Men.

William Sefton of Islington , indicted for assaulting Henry Bunn , on the Highway, and taking from him a Silver Watch, val. 3 l. 2 pieces of Foreign Gold, val. 11 s. and 8 s. in Silver, on the 27th of April last.

William Sefton , 26 Years of Age, born near Wigan in Lancashire , of honest Parents, who gave him but indifferent Education; his Mother marrying another Husband, and his other nearest Relations dying, he was not much look'd after. He was bred a Peruke maker and Barber in his own Country; but not succeeding to his Mind in that Business, he serv'd for some time as a Soldier , and not thinking his Pay sufficient, he went out sometimes upon the Highway to take a Purse from others, whom he thought better provided than himself. He said, that he had not follow'd Robbing or Stealing long, nor committed many Robberies; that he had done the Fact of which he was convicted; and that his Sentence was just, according to Law. He always appeared very Devout and Serious both in Private and Publick; declar'd himself truly penitent for all the Sins of his Life; that he believ'd to be Sav'd, only thro' the Merits of Christ, and died in Peace with all the World.

John Cobbs indicted for breaking the Dwelling-House of Joseph Brown , and stealing thence, 2 Bushels of Beans, and a Bushel of Barley; but the Evidence being defective, he was acquitted of this Indictment. And again indicted for stealing a Bay Gelding, val. 5 l. on the 26th of December last, the Property of Thomas Aylist .

12. John Cobbs , 42 Years of Age, of poor Parentage, had but mean Education, and follow'd Country-work, living Creditably that way, with his Wife and Family, 'till Christmas last; about, and since which Time, by the Advice of Ward the Evidence against him; he stole a Horse, and committed some Robberies on the Highway, for which be declar'd his Sorrow. Being ask'd about a Deposition or Information he had made against Mr. Charlesworth, he gave a Declaration, to the Effect under-written, only with this Difference, that he was not acquainted with Woolham and Clarke, but that the Affair was transacted by the Mediation of Cobb's Wife. Here follows the Declaration of John Cobbs , with respect to Mr. Charlesworth.

The Acknowledgement of John Cobbs .

' WHERE AS the said John Cobb , was prevail'd upon by one Joseph Woolham and Thomas Clarke , ' for to make an Information against Mr. Tho. Charlesworth , being concerned in several Robberies with ' the said John Cobb , where the said Woolham and the ' said Clarke pretended it would save the said Cobb's ' Life, whereupon the said Woolham or Clarke prevail'd upon the Worshipful Justice Midford, (in White-street near Covent-Garden ,) to take the said John ' Cobb's Information at Newgate , where the said John ' Cobbs did swear against the said Mr. Charlesworth ' falsly; and the said John Cobb , the Eighteenth of ' May, did acknowledge he did not know the said ' Charlesworth, altho' the said Charlesworth was in ' the Room till the said Charlesworth discover'd himself ' before the Minister of the Chapel, and the Reverend ' Mr. Russel, Curate of Cripplegate, and divers other ' Persons, when the said Cobbs asked Mr. Charlesworth's ' Pardon, and said to his Knowledge, he never did see ' the said Mr. Charlesworth before in his Life, and desired the same might be made Publick; and said his ' Conscience would not give him to take the Sacrament, ' till he had asked the said Mr. Charlesworth's Pardon, ' and clear'd him to the World, that he was Innocent ' of what was alledged in his false Information.

Cobbs behav'd always very Christianly, and declar'd; that excepting of late, he had not been wicked in his Life, but a good and careful Husband, as his Wife testified: As also, that he was truly penitent for all his Offences, dying in the Faith of Jesus, and in Peace with all Mankind.

Hether Landell of Alhallows Barkin near the Tower , was Indicted for privately stealing a silver Tankard, val. 6 l. on the 24th Day of April last, the Property of Mr. Cummins. Also a Second Time indicted, for stealing another Silver Tankard, val. 6 l. out of the House of John Yateman , on the 24th of March last.

14. Hether Landell , alias Vincent , about 46 Years of Age, of obscue Parents, had little Education; and what he had, he made no good use of. He had been long and frequently in Prison for Villainous Actions, had undergone Sentence of Death, for which he had his Majesty's most gratious Pardon, and had been Transported. His way of Living was upon the Catch; and was certainly very troublesome to Society, having had no settled Employment or Business. He was very quiet and peaceable in his Carriage, and us'd none of those foolish or brutish Miscarriages, which some of the younger Fellows had done. He had certainly been Guilty of very wicked Practices, and was very ignorant; altho' other ways he seem'd naturally to be of a good Under standing, and too much upon the Cunning or rather Sneaking Lay, as they term it. He was very attentive at Chapel, and at other times in the Cells, declar'd himself sincerely Penitent, that he justly Suffer'd, and died in the Faith of Jesus, and in peace with all the World

Richard Nichols , of St. Mary Le Bone , was Indicted for privately and feloniously Stealing 9 Silver Watches, and a Gold Watch, the Property of Mr. Morran, and others, out of the Shop of Mr. Andrew Morran , on the 1st of December last,

15. Richard Nichols , about 40 Years of Age, born of Honest Parents, had good Education at Schools, but did not improve it to that Advantage he might have done. He was a Barber and Perewigmaker by Trade, (as he said) attended his Business, never addicting himself to loose Company, only that sometimes he drunk too much, and spent his Money foolishly. He always behav'd himself with great Seriousness and Devotion, and denied the Fact of which he was convicted, after all the Arguments could be us'd in order, to make an ingenious Confession, adding, that he never was, and never intended to be a Thief or Robber in his Life, and that he had no Faillings but what are common to other Men. He appear'd very Penitent, forgave Neaves, died in the Faith of Jesus, and in Peace with all Men.

James Smith , of the Parish of St. Brides , was Indicted for breaking the House of Richard Corbet , on the 28th of January last in the night Time, and Stealing thence a Silver Snuff-box, value 30 s. two Silver Watches, value 8 l. a pair of Buckles, and 5 s. in Money.

16. James Smith , 17 or 18 Years of Age, of mean Parents in the Country, who gave him little or no Education. He went to Sea ; and Robb'd his Master the Captain of the Ship, who recovering his Money, did not Prosecute him. He confess'd the Fact of which he was convicted, and declar'd his Sorrow for that and other Sins of his Life, and that his Sentence was just. He was a poor Ignorant Boy, and being very Sick, confin'd much of the time to the Cell, and troubl'd or confus'd in his mind, it was a hard matter to make him understand or mind any thing of religious Matters. I represented to him the danger of his Condition, and the heinousness of his Sin, and exhorted him to believe the Gospel, to repent sincerely and make vows and resolutions against Sin. He acknowledg'd that he had been a great Sinner, that God in Justice had afflicted him, that he believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, repented sincerely of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind,

Mary Hendon , and Margaret Pendergrass , of the Parish of St. Martin's in the Fields , were Indicted upon a Statute made in the 3d Year of the Reign of King Henry the VIIth, for aiding and abetting Richard Russel , in forcibly and unlawfully Marrying and Defiling Sibble Morris being a Maiden, and having an Estate.

17, 18. Mary Hendron and Margaret Pendergrass , Women of middle Age, had Husbands and Children; and being convicted of the same Crime, of aiding and abetting Richard Russel , in forcibly and unlawfully marrying and defiling Sibil Morris against her Will, on the 5th of March last, the said Sibil Morris being a Maiden, and having an Estate: Both of them own'd, that they had concurr'd in advancing that Marriage, only they differ'd in giving account of the most material, and which prov'd the most dangerous Circumstances to them, alledging, that the young Woman was no way forc'd, but rather much more desirous than either they, or Russel, were to have the Marriage solemniz'd; and that however Unfortunate the Event hath been, they had no ill Intention, and were ignorant of the Strictness of the Law in such Cases. They declar'd, that they had always been sober, industrious Women; and that, excepting this Misfortune, they had never done any Thing which was Criminal. When they came to Chapel, they were very Grave and Modest, as they were in the Cell when I visited them; for Mrs. Pendergrass was much of the Time afflicted with Sickness; and heard Prayers with Attentions. They said, that they died penitent for their Sins, believing that they should be Sav'd thro' the Merits of Jesus; and that they forgave all Injuries done them, as they expected Forgiveness of God. They were of the Romish Communion .

19. Mary Taylor , alias Dennis , 32 Years of Age, born in Worcestershire , of mean Parents, who gave her little Education. She came to Town without acquainting her Mother; and after she had gone to Service for two or three Years, weary of that, she fell to Whoring and Stealing, which brought her to this fatal End. She confess'd, that Jacob Hawthorn was in her Room, but alledg'd, that as she was gone for a Pot of Beer, two other Women robb'd him of his Money and went off, without allowing her any Share of it. She own'd herself to have been of a very leud Conservation, and a notorious Thief, as many of 'em are, expressing much Sorrow and Grief for the same. She was very ignorant of Christianity: I endeavour'd to instruct her, but the Shortness of Time and Confusion of her Thoughts, kept her from making any great Proficiency that way. Once she made some Noise and Disturbance in Chapel, for which she was taken down Stairs; and when I reprov'd her for it, she own'd her Fault, and that she was drunk; for which Offences she beg'd God Pardon. She appeared Grave and Attentive at Prayers and Exhortations; declar'd her self penitent, that she believ'd in Christ, and that she died in Peace with all the World.

At the Place of Execution,

THEY all appear'd with much Gravity and Strictness; only Astien, or Black Isaac smil'd when he came first there, and as the Rope was tied about his Neck. Gale, alias Kiddy George, wept bitterly, and said, that he was innocent of the Robbery of which he was convicted, which Benson own'd himself to have committed, and that Gale knew nothing of it. Hornby also said, that he never committed any Street-Robbery, tho' he had been guilty of innumerable petty Thefts. Mr. Nichols said, that he never was Robber or Thief, that he knew nothing nor ever heard of the Peruke-maker, who swore against him; and that Dalton inform'd against him, because he assisted in the Escape of Robert Crouch , when Dalton mention'd him in his Information. Robert Crouch said, that altho' he was in the Robbery sworn against him; yet, that it was Dalton, and not he, who knock'd down the Woman; he also blam'd Dalton for some other Things. Mrs. Pender grass said she forgave all the World; and Mrs. Herdron reflected upon Miss Morris, on account (as she thought) of the Severity of the Prosecution. These two died in the Romish Communion Mr. Sefton appeared very penitent, weeping plentifully, and desiring me to pray for him, as did also Mr. Cobbs. All of them seemed very Penitent and Serious in their Devotion. As they were turned off, the Rope in which Sefton hung broke in two, and he fell down to the Ground, after he had hung about half a Minute; but in about 10 or 12 Minutes he was tied up again with the other Criminals. As I was attending at the Place of Execution, I was inform'd, that Isaac Aslien , alias Black Isaac stole 6 or 7 Handkerchiefs, on Sunday se'nnnight, whilst at Chapel, in the midst of Divine Service, which he acknowledg'd, saying, he must have something to subsist on. Altho' Crowder deny'd the Fact for which he suffer'd, to me, yet I am inclined to believe him Guilty, not only of this Fact, but of several others likewise; and the rather, because, I am credibly inform'd, that he acknowledg'd the same to a Gentleman, in the Chapel, the Morning before his Execution. Rawlins some few Days before his Execution, whilst at Chappel one Day, cut off the Tossels from the Pulpit Cushion.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHERIE .

N. B. The particular Cases of Margaret Pendergrass and Mary Hendron , which they desired might be publish'd for the Publick, are too long to insert in this Paper, but will e inserted at large, in Applebee's Weekly Journal, on Saturday next.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

To be SOLD this Day,

A Large House of Goods, on the Eastside of Soho-Square, the Goods consisting of Mohair, Damask, Camblet, Harrateens, and other Beds and Bedding, large Pier and Chimney Glasses, and Sconces, in Gold Frames; likewise Quadrille Tables, and dressing Tables, fiely carved, and guilt with Gold; Walnut-tree, Matted and Stuff'd bottom'd Spanish Leather Chairs, Easy Chairs, dressing Chairs, Mahogany Chairs, and other sorts of Chairs; Walnut-tree double and single Chest of Drawers; Walnut-tree Desks, Buroe Tables, Quadrille Tables; Desks and Book-cases with Glass Doors; Mahogany dining Tables, Corner Tables, Box Tables, Breakfast Tables, Writing Tables; Eight Day Clocks; fine Persia, Muscoe, Turkey and Patern Carpets; Pictures and China, with other useful Furniture, being clean and fashionable; and the very lowest Price is fix'd on each Particular, without any Abatement. The Sale to continue till Quarter-Day.

FOR the Use of all Persons, this Day was Publish'd (with the Houses, Lodgings, and usual Places of Abode, in and about the Cities of London and Westminster, of the Members of both Houses, during the Sitting of Parliament) A True List of the Lords Spiritual and Temporal: As also of the Knights and Commissioners of Shires, Citizens and Burgesses of the present Parliament of Great-Britain with the Alterations that have happened by Deaths, Double Elections, Double Returns, and Undue-Elections, &c. since their first Meeting. The like never before Published. Also, an Alphabetical List of the Names of the Members of the House of Commons.

Printed for J. Roberts, at the Oxford-Arms in Warwick-Lane; J. Crokatt, against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street; J. Weeks, in Westminster-Hall; J. Jackson near St. James's Palace; and sold by the Booksellers of London and Westminster. Price 1s. 6d

London Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , n Black-Fryers . Where Advertisements are taken in.

