THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 13th of February.

BEING THE SECOND EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir JOHN SALTER , Knt ;

Number II. For the said Year.

LONDON :

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXIX.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir John Salter , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Chappel, the Honourable John Strange , Esq ; Recorder of the City of London , and the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the said City, and others his Majesty's Justices for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th of January, 1739-40, and in the Thirteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Six Men, viz. Gilham Snowd , Joseph Wells , William Motte , Robert Onion , John Lineham , and John Hawkins , were by the Jury found guilty of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were exhorted to think upon the Evil of their Ways and Doings, how they had provoked they Holy One of Israel to Wrath against their own Souls, in innumerable Instances, by committing many Sins and Crimes in Violation of all God's Laws, which are altogether Righteous and good; and therefore it was, that the just Vengeance and Judgments of God, had overtaken them.

As they had been guilty of many Sins in general, so they were desired

particular to reflect upon the original Fountain and Spring from whence all the Transgressions of their Lives proceed, and that is the Sin of our Nature, commonly called Original Sin, which David in his Penitential Psalm confesseth unto God, and mourneth over, Psalm li. 6. Behold I was shapen in Wickedness, and in Sin did my Mother conceive me; and of this the Apostle St. Paul, when speaking of what Power the Law hath over us Christians under the Gospel, makes this grievous Complaint, Romans vii. 24. Oh! wretched Man that I am, who shall deliver me from the Body of this Death!

This Body of Death is the Iniquity wherein we were shapen, and the Sin in which our Mother conceived us; this is the Principle and Spring whence all the Sins of our Life proceed; and this Sin they were exhorted, by the Grace of God, to lament and mourn over, and to apply to the Throne of Grace, by fervent Prayer and Supplication, that Original Guilt might not be imputed to them, and that being purified and washed in the precious Blood of Christ, they might by him be presented pure and without Spot before God, in the great Day of the Lord.

All of them having been convicted of Thefts and Robberies, they were desired to take Notice of the Heinousness of such Sins which are in Contradiction to all Laws divine and human, one of the Ten Commandments being, Thou shalt not steal; and wherever in Scripture there is a Catalogue of those Sinners who are excluded the Kingdom of Heaven, Thieves are always included.

Again, as to human Laws, they are all framed for the Convenience and Good of Society in general, to the Destruction whereof Theft and Robbery have a direct Tendency, and consequently the Commission of these Irregularities, is a Declaration of Enmity to all Mankind.

They were all seriously exhorted to repent of their Sins, especially those scandalous Crimes for which they suffered so much Shame and Sorrow, and to look upon the Punishments they then endured, as just Chastisements from the Almighty for the flagrant Impieties of their Lives; and since they could not approve themselves the sincere Servants of God by a continued Tenor of a holy Life, they were intreated to improve the few remaining Moments left them by the Lenity of their Judges,

in doubling their Diligence in fearing and loving God, in working out their Soul's Salvation with Fear and Trembling, seeing God is a consuming Fire to the Workers of Iniquity, and in exercising a lively Faith upon Christ, through whose Merits and Intercession only we can be saved.

They were instructed in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, and to renew their Baptismal Vows, which they had neglected and despised, by being Partakers in the Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, where Christ communicates the special Tokens of his Love to all faithful Souls, in which, if we partake in the same worthily, we contemplate and admire the infinite Love of God, who loved us at no less a Rate than to give his only begotten Son to suffer Death for us, even the bitter, painful, and ignominious Death of the Cross; and all this God did for us, not when we were Friends, but Enemies, his avowed Enemies; so in this Sacrament we renew our Baptismal Vows, by engaging ourselves in God's Service, dedicating our selves to him, and solemnly vow perpetual Obedience to him, and by this Means we prepare and fit ourselves for his heavenly Kingdom and Glory.

Thomas Hawkins before his Trial was lame of his Legs, which Lameness after Conviction increased, till his Irons were taken off, then he sell sick and feverish, and at Times was out of his Senses; he was very poor and naked, and his Cell became so loathsome, by Reason of his illness and nastiness, that one cou'd scarce go within the Door: When I visited him he expressed a great Desire of Prayers and Instructions, and confessed that he was a great Sinner, for which he begg'd Pardon of God and Man, and appear'd penitent.

The other five constantly attended in Chapel, and were attentive, and seemingly penitent; but some of them when indisposed absented: Motte turn'd very ill on Tuesday the 28th of January, as likewise did Onion, having his Legs and Feet swell'd, and one of his Toes like to burst, so that the Pain made him cry, not being able to rise, move, or turn himself; when I visited them they professed Penitence and Sorrow for their Sins. John Lineham was a Roman and very ignorant, but behav'd decently, and was easy about Principles.

On Thursday the 7th of February, the Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the six Malefactors lying in the Cells of Newgate, under Sentence of Death, when Thomas Hawkins , for assaulting

Matthew Brown in a certain publick Street, and common Highway, in the Parish of St. Sepulchre , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Silver Watch, value 3 l. Dec. 30, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve; the other five, viz. John Lineham , Thomas Motte , Robert Onion , Gilham Snowd , and Joseph Wells , were order'd for Exetion; but on the Evening before a Reprieve came for the two latter for six Weeks.

Robert Onion was indicted, for that he on the 15th of Dec. in the Parish of St. Gregory by St. Paul's , feloniously and sacrilegiously did steal, take, &c. 8 Brass Nossels, together with 8 Brass Cups, and 8 Brass Bosses, value 25 s. and a Brass Arm of a Sconce, value 5 s. the Goods of the Dean and Chapter of St. Paul's, in the Cathedral Church of St. Paul's .

1. Robert Onion , 32 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in London , who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and cast Accompts, fit for Business, and was likewise instructed in the Principles of the Christian Religion. When he was of Age he was bound to serve the Governor of Antigua , and accordingly he went thither, and serv'd his Master faithfully Seven Years, and he having been taught Book-keeping, which he understood very well, which induced his Master to entrust him to keep his Books, and to look after his Merchandise, in selling and disposing of his Goods, in which Capacity he gained Approbation, and when out of his Time he traded for himself: During the Time of his Servitude, and transacting Business for himself, he said he had sav'd. 700 l. with which he design'd to trade with and encrease his Stock; accordingly he purchased Goods, which he shipp'd on Board a Sloop for Monserat , but they had not sail'd far, before they were taken up by a French Guard de Costa of Hispaniola, or thereabouts, who carry'd off the Ship, and stript Onion of all, leaving him neither Cloaths nor Goods; these Pyrates having kept and treated him barbarously for some Days, they at last gave him a Coat and a Crown in Money, and then set him ashore upon St. Eustacia , an Island belonging to the Dutch, where they treated him very civilly and kindly, many of the Inhabitants being British Families, and almost all of them speaking English, he set up an English School, and taught Reading, Writing, Arithmetick, and Book-keeping , in which Way he succeeded very well, the People of the Country encouraging him, so that in a short Time he had a hundred or two hundred

Scholars, and was obliged to employ an Usher or two for Assistants.

In this Station, those of the Neighbourhood showed him great Respect, and he lived very well; yet old England still was in Onion's Mind, being of an unsettled and roving Temper; accordingly, he left the flourishing Business in Eustacia , and returned to England , having to the value of two hundred Pound and upwards in Money and Goods.

He understanding Merchants-Accompts, was employed here in keeping the Books of some Merchant, and eminent Shop-keepers, and in this Station, while he behaved well and attended his Business discreetly, he wanted nothing, drest well, and kept up his Credit; but soon wearied of doing well, he frequented the Play-Houses, took to bad Company, especially lewd Women, to whom he was too much inclined, and in a short Time spent all his Money; and all these Things concurring, precipitated his Destruction.

Now being plunged into the height of Misery, he fell in with the worst of Company, as, Thieves, Pick-pockets, Highwaymen, House-breakers, &c. with whom he was resolved to stop at no sort of Villainy, having forsaken God and a good Conscience.

Before the Commission of this Fact for which he dyed, he pretended that he was always honest in his Dealings, and into this he was drawn and enticed by his Companion, or Partner in the Robbery. The Account he gave of it was to this Effect.

On the 15th of December last, Onion and his wicked Companion, went into St. Paul's Church , at Three o'Clock in the Afternoon, being Prayer Time, and they skulk'd about 'till the Congregation were dismiss'd, in order to rob the Church of what they could lay hold on; when they were left alone in the Church, and the Doors shut, they lay upon the Floor between two Pillows, 'till they thought it a convenient and quiet Time of the Night, to pull down the eight brass Nossels, eight brass Cups, value 25 s. and the brass Arm of the Sconce, all which they took Care to conceal, and to hide themselves till the Time of Morning Prayer, and then the Doors being open, they found Means to convey themselves out of the Church undiscovered; one of the Partners in the Sacrilege is gone out of the Way, but Onion offering the Things to sale in Long-Lane , was detected, sent to Newgate , and convicted capitally for the Crime of Sacrilege.

They were put to some difficulty in reaching the Sconces and Bosses, &c. the One being obliged to stand upon the others Shoulders, though, when they did the Sacrilege, it was very dark, being the dead Hour of the Night.

He was a wicked, vicious Man, being guilty of all manner of Debauchers; he cried and lamented much, and always seem'd discontented with his Lot.

He was once in Newgate before for a Week or two, upon Information of a Woman of the Town, but being tried upon what she alledged, he was acquitted. He confest that his Sufferings were justly brought upon him for the great Enormities of his Life. He repented of his Sins, hoped for Salvation thro' the Merits and Blood of Jesus Christ, and died in Peace with all Men.

John Lincham was indicted (with Teddy Brian , Henry Smith , and John of Gaunt, not taken) for assaulting David Patten , Esq ; on the King's Highway, and putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Cane, with a gold Head value 5 l. 5 s. November 4.

2. John Lineham , about Nineteen Years of Age, of mean, but honest Parents in Dublin , who gave him no Education, and as to Religion, it was what he least minded, only he pretended to be of the Popish Principles.

When of Age, he was bound Apprentice to a Butcher , but being of a roving, unsettled Disposition, he served but two or three Years of his Time, and then applying to unlawful, wicked Practices, he got acquainted with a young Girl in the Neighbourhood, whom he married, and then not knowing how to provide for his Family, or afraid of being called to an Account for his Irregularities, and supposing England to be a better or more plentiful Country, he resolved to go for London , which Resolution he immediately put in Practice, and his Wife followed him thither.

He pretended to have come over to an Uncle, a Millar at Bristol; but when he arrived at London , he went to Drury-lane , where he met with some of his Countrymen, who persuaded him to engage with them in going out upon Street Robberies. He neither having Knowledge nor Grace to resist their Delusions, too readily comply'd with their Sollicitations, and then laying aside all former Intentions of going to his Uncle, associated himself with a Gang of

the most notorious Thieves, Pickpockets, and Robbers, about the Town.

He pretended at his first Arrival to have wrought with the Butchers sometimes, but most of his Gain was unlawful Purchase.

He was not willing to confess particular Robberies, but that of 'Squire Patten, for which he died, he did not deny, and the Account he gave of it, was to the following Purpose.

On the 4th of November they agreed to go out upon their accustomed Expeditions. Lineham, Teddy Brian , Henry Smith , and John of Gaunt, went out from Mrs. Lambert's in Parker's-Lane , to the two Blue-Posts near Drury-Lane , from thence they took a View of Covent-Garden, and coming up Bow-street , they observed 'Squire Patten, High Bailiff of Westminster , near the End of Earl's-Court, coming out thence, between 7 and 8 in the Evening.

Teddy Brian went after him, and gave him a Blow with a Bludgeon, which he had under his Coat, and repeated it several Times; at last the Gentleman fell down, and endeavoured to draw his Sword, but was unable, because of the Bruises which he received in his Hand and Arm in defending himself from the Blows; in the mean Time one of the Rogues wrenched his Gold-headed Cane out of his Hand, and then hearing some People coming towards them, they all fled, Mr. Patten rising up with Difficulty; cried out, Thieves! Murder! Some Chairmen went in pursuit of them, but they all escaped.

This he owned, only with some Variation from the Evidence, as is common for them to alledge. He did not strike Mr. Patten, but was at a little Distance with a Bludgeon in his Hand in Case of Need, and (as he said) he had none of the Money, of which there was but very little considering the Value of the Thing.

Sometime after this Robbery, he was taken up upon the Information of one James Thompson , an Associate, whose Evidence he denied not, only he blam'd him in some small Particulars,

He was of a most profligate vicious Life, and irreclaimable in Wickedness, was very ignorant of God and Religion, attended constantly in Chapel, and though he pretended to be educated in another Profession, yet he comply'd with the Prayers,

repeated the Lord's-Prayer, and the Creed, and made very regular Responces.

He behaved always very quietly, but was hard-hearted, and had not such a due Sense of his Sin as was requisite. He lov'd the Church of England as well as his old Profession, but these are Things he had not troubled his Mind much about. He was very poor and naked, and had nobody come after him but his Wife, who followed him from Dublin, and brought him any little Thing for his Support she could.

He believed in Christ our only Saviour, repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Men, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

Thomas Motte , alias Moote , of St. Brides , was indicted for stealing 3 Five-Guinea Pieces, 4 Two-Guinea Pieces, 22 Guineas, a Portugal Piece of Gold, Value 3 l. 12 s. a Thirtysix Shilling Piece, 2 Half Guineas, a Piece of coined Gold of King Charles the Second, Value 23 s. 16 Crown Pieces, 36 gilt Sixpences, a silver Box gilt, Value 3 s. a Chrystal Stone engraved for a Seal, Value 3 s. and 4 Gold Mourning Rings, Value 30 s. the Goods of William Gibbon , Clerk, in his Dwelling-house, December 16.

5. Thomas Motte , alias Moote , 21 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Essex , about 30 Miles from Town, near to a Place call'd Dunmow , who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and Arithmetick, in order to fit him for Business, and instructed him in the Pinciples of the Christian Religion. When of Age, his Father being a Gardiner , bred him to his own Business, but not much minding it, he fell in with bad Company, kept late Hours, and quarrell'd with his Father, which occasioned such Differences, that they could by no Means agree; so one Night staying out too late, when he came Home his Father corrected him severely for it; being incensed at it to such a Degree, that he left his Father, not letting him know where he went, and got into a Country Gentleman's Service , and since that Time he never returned to his Father, but serv'd several Gentlemen of Reputation, both in Town and Country; but thinking to get better Services at London , induc'd him to leave the Country and come up.

In all the Places which he liv'd in he prov'd honest, and wrong'd no Body, but acquir'd the Character of a faithful Servant, and as to the robbing the Revd . Mr. Gibbons, for which Fact he died, he acknowledg'd that he was guilty, and that he did

not commit the same by himself, but had consulted about it with two or three of his Countrymen, who used to come and visit him, one of whom (as was supposed) was his Brother, who put him upon it, and likewise gave him Instructions how to proceed in it.

On Sunday the 16th of Dec. last, while the Revd. Mr. Gibbons was gone to Church, there being but few People left at Home, one of whom was the Footman, who had the Charge of the House, these Fellows came to Mr. Gibbon's House, and meeting the Servant, he went to make himself ready for Church, and they being in the Passage, though he was absent but a few Minutes, yet in that short Time they had the Impudence to slip up Stairs to his Study, broke open the Desk, and carry'd off all the different Peices of Money as was mentioned in the Indictment.

Thomas Motte alledg'd, that he was not present en the Robbery was committed, but that he was in Aldermanbury at that Time, tho' the Servant swore, that Motte was there about the Time when the Book-Case or Desk was broke open, and robb'd of the Money mention'd in the Indictment; however he did not deny but that he was equally guilty with the rest, for they gave him a large Share of the Booty, and he taking Guilt to himself, fled with the others into Essex , in which County they were born, and in the same Neighbourhood; the rest made off and escaped with most of the Money, having not been heard off since.

Mr. Gibbons having but a little before discharg'd Thomas Motte of his Service, and from what Information was given him, he suspected his late Servant Motte to be the Thief, which upon making further Enquiry, he sent down a Constable into Essex, with a Warrant sign'd by two Justices to search for Thomas Motte , who found him at a Place called Dunmow in Essex , upon which he secured him, and upon searching him, found almost all the Things he had receiv'd or taken upon him, and carrying him before a Justice he committed him to Chelmsford Goal , where they detain'd him till he was sent up to Newgate by a Habeas Corpus, where he receiv'd his just Reward.

Some gilt Six-pences which his Father, Brother, or he had passed for Half-Guineas, were exchang'd by the Constable, who gave other Money for them. All these Things he confessed to his Master and others

while he was in Chelmsford Goal , alledging he had them from one John Linsley , a Partner in the Robbery.

He own'd himself ungrateful to the Revd. Mr. Gibbons, who he said had been a kind Master, and with whom for some Time he liv'd very well. When in Health Motte constantly attended in Chapel, and was serious in Devotion, attentive to Exhortations, and seemingly penitent for his great Crimes, and at all Times behav'd calmly and decently, being pretty ingenuous in his Confessions. He was not so wicked as many of them are, tho' his Fate was the same with the rest, and said, that keeping bad Company had been the Ruin of him.

About 12 or 13 Days before they died he fell sick, and when I visited him he expressed a great Desire after Prayers and Exhortations, and stood by his former Confessions; but his Sickness increasing, he lost his Senses, stripping off his Cloaths, and lying naked on the Couch with his swell'd Legs and Feet, and likewise his Body, excepting some loose Garments which was thrown over him. Sometime before he died he recover'd his Senses, and was very thankful for Prayers and Exhortations, but spoke sometimes quite out off the Way, and could not say any Thing that was sensible. He believ'd in Jesus Christ, repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

The following Letter R. Onion sent to one of his Companions.

MY DEAR FRIEND,

I Little thought that I should ever have writ to you, from such a doleful Place as I now am in. You see what my Sins (by the just Judgment of God) have brought me to; O! do you pray to your and my offended Maker, that he would mercifully forgive me the many Injuries that you and I have committed together; call to Mind my dear Friend, and reflect upon my now most unhappy Condition; let my fatal Example be a Means for you to shun those Rocks upon which I have split, and avoid the Path that ends in Destruction, Shame and Death. With my Eyes now streaming with Tears, I beg of Almighty God, mercifully to bless you, and grant you Grace to forsake all your Evil Ways, especially that you may repent of that crying Sin, as I now heartily do, that we were entangled in; you may live (and I sincerely wish you may) to become a good Man, and end your Days in Peace: I likewise would have you take Care of all malicious Stratagems that may be laid to do you a Prejudice by your Enemies.

Remember me, and remember your Creator before it is too late; you yet are in the prime of your Life, fly from this miserable Land as soon as you can, and get your Bread with the labour of your Hands; a Penny got with Care and Honesty, will bring you more Peace, than a Pound acquired by Violence, Fraud or Deceit.

I have nothing more to say than to repeat my Wishes and Prayers to Almighty God for your well-doing, and to tell you that I should be glad to hear from you.

Farewell, my Friend, I bid you an everlasting Adieu.

ROBERT ONION .

N. B. Between the Hours of Three and Four, you may send to me by your Friend, but let him deliver the Letter to nobody but my self or in my Sight.

Once more Farewell.

The Answer to the above Letter.

DEAR FRIEND,

I Received your most melancholly and affectionate Epistle, which was a severe corrosive to my wounded and much afflicted Heart. I perus'd it with that Tenderness and Concern, with that Perplexity and Confusion, 'twas naturally adapted to excite in me. Words can't express the Pain I feel for you, nor the Sorrow that your Misfortune have plung'd me into. Your Words have made a deep Impression upon my Mind, and your Reflections upon our Wickedness and Folly (as they are but too just and rational) cut me to the very Soul. What would I not give to retrieve my Innocence, and save you from the impending Stroke? But alas! your Fate seems irrevocable, and my Innocency is contaminated.

Nothing but the great Mercy of God, thro' the All-sufficient Merits of Christ, can save you, or cleanse me. My dear Friend, your Admonitions have had a proper Effect upon my Heart; permit me now to be a Monitor to you, and to entreat you to call earnestly upon God for the Pardon of your manifold Sins, and that you may die the Death of the Righteous. Humble your Soul before your offended Maker, repent you truly for your Sins past, have a lively and steadful Faith in Christ our Saviour, amend your Thoughts, and be in perfect Charity with all Men; so shall you be a meet Partaker of the Glory of Christ in his Kindgom.

I can never sufficiently embrace your Charity for me, in exciting me to repentance and a new Life; and I do sincerely assure you that your unhappy Fall, and particularly your pathetick Letter, will always be my Mementi Mori, and shall set a Curb upon my vicious Habits and Inclinations. Our Conduct ever since we became acquainted together, but especially at London, has (as you truly observe) been very ill and irregular: I, for my part, regret it very much, and I hope, and am persuaded, that your Repentance is warm and sincere. You, thro' the Mercy of God, are going to a Land of Bliss, and to the Joys of a blessed Eternity, while I am left to wade thro' the Sea of this troublesome World, rack'd with a thousand Perplexities, confounded with the bitter Remembrance of an ill-spent Life, and liable to the persecution and Resentment of those whom I have injured.

These Circumstances duly weigh'd and considered, it appears to me that you are in much better Situation; a few Moments will put an End to your Misery, whereas mine will encrease with my Years. Take Courage therefore my precious Friend! acquit yourself like a Man of Resolution, cry aloud unto Heaven, and cast of all Temporal Concerns; fix your Thoughts upon the Joys of Eternity, and let your Faith in Christ be ardent and inviolable. I pray for you incessantly, with strong Crying and Tears; and may the Peace of God, which passeth all Understanding, keep your Heart and Mind in the Knowledge and Love of God, and of his Son Jesus Christ, our Lord; and may the Blessing of God Almighty, the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost be upon you, and remain with you evermore. Amen.

Adieu my dear Friend,

Live Eternally and be happy.

11. Feb. 1739.

R. D.

On Tuesday Evening Mr. Gilham Snowd and Mr. Joseph Wells (to their very great Joy and Surprize) received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for six Weeks. So sudden, and indeed unexpected a Deliverance from an ignominious Death, must undoubtedly strike them with a joyful Amazement, and raise such Sensations in their Minds, as may be much more easily conceiv'd than explain'd. His Majesty's Clemency upon this Occasion is certainly very great and laudable; and it is not to be doubted

but we should have more frequent Instances of Royal Indulgence in such Cases, had we not so many glaring Proofs of the most shameful, disloyal and ungenerous abuse of it.

When a Subject of Britain, that is to say, a Freeman in the Land of Liberty and Plenty, has by many repeated Instances, broke thro' his solemn Engagements with Heaven, and violated the most equitable Laws of his Country, when such a Person, notwithstanding his Enormities, receives the most distinguishing Marks of Clemency from the Throne, and after that relapses into his former Wickedness, and (like the Dog to his Vomit) returns to his Villainies again - What Indulgences can such an Offender lay claim to? - How great must be the Aggravation of his Guilt? - How small the Hopes of his effectual Reformation? - Nothing but a Miracle can reclaim so abandoned a Wretch, who, by all the Rules of Equity and public Good, ought to be lopp'd off as an unworthy Member of the Community, and stand recorded as an Example of public Justice.

As to the two Young Gentlemen abovementioned, 'tis greatly to be hoped, that his Majesty's Royal Goodness will have a suitable Effect upon their Morals, and produce a real and lasting Change in their future Life and Conduct. They have sufficiently experienced the Infelicity of a vicious Life, the certain Destruction that attends it, the Pangs of a wounded Heart, the irksome Fatigue of Imprisonment, and the Terrors of approaching Death. Their Vows to Heaven have (no doubt) been ardently repeated, and ought to be as inviolably kept, as they were sincerely made. Their whole Lives ought to be one continued Proof of their Gratitude, Obedience, and Fidelity, to God, their King, and their Country. The Interposition of Providence hath shone very conspicuously in their Deliverance, and it is their indispensable Duty to weigh and consider for what Ends and Intentions their Lives have been graciously extended to a longer Date: - Surely that they may be employed in the Honour of God, the Service of Mankind, and the Important Purposes of their own Salvation. Let them with Hearts full of Love and Gratitude, prostrate themselves before the Throne of Grace, and adore that divine Goodness they have so liberally tasted of under all Circumstances, but more especially at this Crisis of Extremity; and may the whole Tenour of their Conduct and future Actions demonstrate, how sincere their Repentance, how hearty their Attachment to Piety, Virtue, and Integrity, and how

deep, how grateful, how indelible their Sentiments of the Divine Favour and Indulgence.

I cannot conclude without exhorting such as have already, or may hereafter be inclin'd to engage in the Paths of Wickedness, to reflect upon the Conduct and unexpected Respite of the Gentlemen under Consideration.

Let them consider the unavoidable Shame and Destruction that soon or late attends the wretched Sons of Iniquity, and that 'tis morally impossible for a Course of Impiety, Fraud, and Rapine, to go undetected and unpunish'd even on this Side the Grave.

Let them learn, by many fatal and repeated Examples, to shun those dangerous Rocks upon which others have been wreck'd, and to avoid all the Avenues that lead either directly, or indirectly to Poverty, Shame, and Ruin; more especially the pernicious and scandalous Practice of Gaming, in all its Branches; an Evil that (notwithstanding all our salutary Laws to the contrary) most shamefully prevails among all Ranks of People, that is attended with a Variety of latent Mischiefs, and which (as we have been credibly inform'd) was the Source of the calamitous Circumstances that have attended the unfortunate Gentlemen, (particularly one of them) aforemention'd.

From ill Company, and ill Advice, let them fly as from the Mouth of a Serpent; and may the Holy Spirit of the Almighty reclaim and sanctify their Hearts, and direct their Feet in the Way of Peace.

The following is a Copy of Verss by one of the unhappy Persons who lay under Sentence of Death, which we imagine may not be improperly inserted here.

IN dreary Solitude confin'd,

We pensive mourn our wretched Fate,

Sever'd, alas! from Humankind

We view our Folly when too late.

While Terrors sharp a pointed Steel,

Each lucid Interval destroy;

What Consolation can we feel?

Or what Tranquility enjoy?

Behind us, if we cast our Eyes,

A sable Cloud of Guilt appears;

Before us Scenes of Horror rise,

With ruin'd Hopes, and guilty Fears.

Insuperable Grief and Care

Upon our Souls corring prey,

While Images of black Despair,

Surround us each revolvig Day.

Think, Oh! ye giddy Train of Youth!

Who on the Brink of Ruin stand,

Who quit the pleasant Paths of Truth,

To sin with an unbounded Hand.

Think that an unexpected Call,

Would wither all your tinsel Joy;

Reflect on our untimely Fall,

And dread the Hand that can destroy.

What is this fleeting round of Life,

With such Solicitude we range?

What? but a Labyrinth of Strife,

A thorny Maze of endless Change.

Farewel to all its soothing Charms,

That wont to draw our Souls astray;

Let Mercy with extended Arms,

Receive and bear us hence away.

Absolve our Guilt, Eternal God,

Whose Goodness fills unbounded Space,

Correct us with thy gentle Rod,

And hear us with redeeming Grace.

Enshrine our Souls in Bliss above,

Where universal Raptures glow,

Where sacred Harmony and Love,

In boundless Emanations flow.

The following Letter was sent to Newgate to Mr. Joseph Wells , who was repriev'd for six Weeks, with Mr. Snowd.

Dear Sir,

A Concern for Mankind is no more than a Piece of Humanity; from this Principle, proceeds what you are to expect in the following Lines; the Design of which, is to quicken and improve those Sentiments and Reflections in you, which your own (about too unhappy) Circumstances are, in their own Nature apt to produce. A great Bar it is with Multitudes of Persons against a serious and necessary Search into themselves, that the History of their Lives is rendered black and terrify'd by the Consciousness of their Guilt and repeated Follies. But desire you I must, I do it earnestly, (oh! do not reject the first Advice) to look back in a solemn and impartial Manner upon the Time past, for the Sake of that vast and incomprehensible duration, the Time to come. To look back, may present you ('tis very true) with the Horrors of Days, perhaps, some Years mispent; Reason perverted, Talents abused; but what then? Must you not call yourself to an Account? Must you not examine what you have been doing? Or will your Condition be safer, if you do not reflect at all about it?

Be not deceived, give not over your Reflections, 'till you view, till you know yourself, 'till you comprehend the State, and consider and determine what is immediately to be done in it. To engage

in that Work successfully, do not charge your Follies upon the Heat of Youth, human Frailty, the force of Custom, the prevalence of Example; but accuse, reproach, condemn yourself for the Facts of which (who wou'd be the Tempter) your self only is the miserable Author. For who cou'd, if he had been ever so willing, have robb'd you of your Innocence? What Power turn'd you of the Path of Virtue? Or what but the Concurrence of your own Will, would have made an ill Man of you? Your Sin, alas! is your own; and your surest Method to attain, which I hope you inextinguishably thirst after, Divine Mercy, is to take the Shame and to charge your Faults upon no one but yourself.

The Mischief your Sin has done you, the Scourge and Torment it has, laid upon you, is too plain an Argument of its Guilt and Provocation: Reflect I beseech you, reflect upon it till you feel your Heart touch'd and wounded with Anguish for what is past. Let no present Uneasiness drive you from these Thoughts, which like Corrosives, or sharpest Medicines, may be very good and salutary, when Lenitives have no effect; the Pain and Melancholly of a few Days is endured wisely; which by the Goodness of Heaven, may prevent more exquisite and lasting Evils.

To bring these Reflections to their Improvement, recollect that the Season of God's Call and Invitation to Mercy, is not yet over. The Day of Grace (how nigh soever to an End) is not yet set, something you ought to do, now something certainly which bears as near a Proportion to your past Offences as is possible. What can this be but to exert your self on this Occasion, to quicken your Diligence, to waken and rouze your Endeavours, and to work out your own Salvation with Fear and Trembling! To this End, place God, a Holy and just God, continually in your View. Consider with Sorrow, what Humiliation, what Care and Vigilance he expects from you, and let these Virtues be your constant Companions, loose not an Hour, no, not a single Moment, for tho' nothing else can, timely Reflections, and timely Penitence may interest you in his Favour, to what it belongs justly to punish Sinners, and to be merciful to them that truly repent.

Think what the World is hastening to apace, the great Assize, and let your Thoughts dwell upon this Meditation, 'till it affect and pierce your Heart: Let the Words of your Mouth, and the Meditations of your Heart, speak you now greatly in earnest, and that you are with the utmost Sollitude, preparing to meet him from whom nothing can be hid.

Let Reason therefore and Religion direct every Motion of your Soul, what Vice soever may be in Season, and most fashionable to your Age, or to the Place of your sad Confinement, avoid it as a Mariner wou'd do a Storm. Make a Virtue of Necessity, and convince the World a Man may be good and serious

in any Place; whosoever you converse with fly from your Vices as from the Teeth of a Serpent: Submit yourself to God, and let your Conversation shew you have him in all your Thoughts. Speak now and act as much (if possible much more) for Religion shews you have done against it, and never regard those who will do ill, if they censure or deride what you do well and virtuously. Next to God's, beg the Assistance of your Spiritual Guide, and his most fervent Prayers, and if you feel a Disposition and warm Desire of it, participate in the blessed Sacrament as often as you can, 'twill quicken your Graces, invigorate your Zeal, compose your Spirit, prepare you for your last Hour, and fortify your Mind against the Dread of Death.

I have only this, which I must inculcate once more; whatsoever your Hand findeth to do, do it with all your Might, for there is no Wisdom, nor Device, nor Knowledge in the Grave. God (Dear Sir) can help you, and the only Way to expect his Help is to Mourn, that you may be comforted.

Your sincere Friend, and Christian Monitor.

Jan. 11, 1739-40.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Morning of their Execution, Mr. Snowd, Mr. Wells, with Robert Onion , took the Sacrament very devoutly, and both of them were very thankful for their happy Deliverance. After Prayers were over, they was convey'd from Newgate in one Cart; when they came to the Place of Execution, they were all Three ty'd up, Motte being so very weak, that they was oblig'd to carry him on their Backs to the Cart. Robert Onion had no more to say, than what he had before acknowledged, only that he died in Peace with all Men, and own'd the Fact which he suffer'd for. John Lineham acknowledged the Justice of his Sentence, and hop'd God would have Mercy on his poor Soul. They went off the Stage crying to God to have Mercy on them, and Lord Jesus receive our Spirits.

This is all the Account given by me

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is Published, Price 1 s.

The Second Edition, with Additions,

A DESCRIPTION of the WINDWARD. PASSAGE, and Gulf of FLORIDA, with the Course of the British Trading-Ships to, and from the Island of Jamaica. Also an Account of the TRADE-WINDS and CURRENTS thereabouts, at different Seasons of the Year. Illustrated with a CHART of the Coast of Florida, and of the Islands of the Bahama, Cuba, Hispaniola, Jamaica, and the adjacent smaller Islands, Shoals, Rocks, and other remarkable Things in the Course of the Navagation in the West-Indies. Whereby is demonstrated, the Precariousness of those Voyages to the West-India Merchants, and the Impossibility of their Homeward-bound Ships keeping clear of the Spanish Guarda Costa's. The Whole very necessary for the Information of such as never were in those Parts of the World.

To which are added, some PROPOSALS for the better securing of the British Trade and Navigation to and from the West-Indies.

Note, At the End of this Treatise is a General INDEX of the Names, with a Description of the Situations of the Islands, &c. contained in the annex'd Chart, distinguished by Numerical References to each other. Likewise an Alphabetical Catalogue of the same Names alone, with the like Numerical References, the Uses of which are mentionned at the End of the Whole.

To which is now annexed, a very remarkable Letter, containing a succinct Account of the Galleons, Flot, Flotilla, and Register-ships; as also of the Ports of Havana, Porto-Bello, Carthagena, Vera-Cruz, Buenos-Ayres, and the Coasts of the Carrcoa's; iterspers'd with various curious Remarks on the Commerce of the Spaniards in America.

Printed and Sold by J. Applebee, in Bolt Court, Fleet-street; C. Corbett, Bookseller and Publisher, in Fleet-street; E. Nutt and E. Cook, at the Royal-Exchange; and A. Dodd, at the Peacock, without Temple-Bar.

This Day is published, (Neatly printed in Two Pocket Volumes, adorn'd with Frontispieces)

A Select and impartial Account of the Lives, Behaviour, and Dying Words, of the most remarkable Convicts, from the Year 1700, down to the present time; containing amongst many others the following Accounts viz. Richard Turpin , for several Robberies; Herman Strodman , for the barbarous Murder of Peter Wolter , his Fellow Apprentice ; Thomas Cook , the Gloucester Butcher , for the Murder of Mr. John Cooper , a Constable in May Fair ; John Morgridge , for the Murder of Lieutenant Cope in the Tower; Mr. Gregg, Clerk to the late Secretary Harley, Earl of Oxford, for holding Correspondence with her Majesty's Enemies; Richard Town , Tallow-Chandler , the only Person who was executed on the Bankrupt Act; Col. Oxburgh, Richard Gascoigne , Esq ; Justice Hall, and Parson Paul, for High Treason; the Marquis de Paleotti, for stabbing his Servant; Lieut. Bird, for the Murder of Samuel Loxton , at a Bagnio; Matthias Brinsden , for the Murder of his Wife; Capt . John Massey , for Piracy; Capt . John Stanley , for the Murder of Mrs. Maycock; Jonathan Wild , the Thief-taker, for several Felonies; Katharine Hayes , for the barbarous Murder of her Husband; Edward Burnworth , William Blewit , and five more, for the Murder of Mr. Ball, in St. George's Fields ; James Cluff , for the Murder of his Fellow Servant Mary Green ; John Gow , alias Smith , Captain of the Pirates, for Piracy and Murder; Mr. Maynee, one of the Clerks of the Bank of England, for cheating the Bank of 4420 l. Mr. Wood-marsh for the Murder of Mr. Robert Ormes ; John Sheppard , who made his Escape out of the Condemn'd Hole, and likewise out of the Stone Room in Newgate ; Robert Hallam , for the barbarous Murder of his Wife, by throwing her out of Window; Mr. Shelton, the Apothecary, an Highwayman; Sarah Malcolmb , for the barbarous Murder of Anne Price , Eliz. Harrison , and Lydia Duncomb , in the Temple ; John Field , Joseph Rose , William Bush , and Humphry Walker , for entering the House of Mr. Lawrence and Mr. Francis, &c. with above a hundred more.

Flix quem faciunt aliena Pericula cautum.

Printed and sold by J. Applebee, in Bolt-Court, Fleet-Street.

FINIS.

