THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words Of the SIX MALEFACTORS, VIZ. GEORGE LOVELL for a Highway Robbery, AND JOHN DEVINE for a Highway Robbery. Who were executed at TYBURN on Wednesday; August 5; JOHN JONES and JOHN SUNDERLAND , alias SANDILAND , for a Burglary, JOHN CHAPMAN for a Burglary, AND JOHN CREAMER for returning from Transportation. Who were executed at TYBURN , on Wednesday, October 14, 1772.

BEING THE Sixth and Seventh EXECUTIONS in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. WILLIAM NASH , Esq . LORD MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON :

LONDON: Sold by LEWIS and BLADON, Paternoster-Row; KINGMAN, Royal Exchange; WAGSTAEF, Brick Lane, Spitalfields; and of the News Carriers in Town and Country.

[Price 61]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, &c.

By virtue of the King's commission of the peace, oyer and terminer, and goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the city of London and county of Middlesex, at Justice-hall, in the Old-Bailey, before the Right Honourable William Nash , Esq . Lord Mayor of the city of London ; the Honourable Edward Willes , Esq . one of the justices of his Majesty's court of King's-bench ; Sir William Blackstone , knt . one of the justices of his Majesty's court of Common Pleas ; James Eyre , Esq . Recorder , and others of his Majesty’s justices of oyer and terminer of the city of London, and goal-delivery of New-gate, holden for the said city and county of Middlesex, on Wednesday the 15th, Thursday the 16th, Friday the 17th, and Saturday the 18th of July, 1772, in the 12th year of his Majesty's sign, ten persons were capitally convicted, and received sentence, of death for the several crimes set forth in their indictments; viz. Robert Aystrop , George Lovell , Thomas Maysey , James Assent , John Rogers , Richard Cole , John Fryers , James Dempsey , John Devine , and Robert Jones .

And on Friday the 24th of July, the report of the said malefactors being made to his Majesty, by Mr. Recorder, five of them were respited; namely, Thomas Maysey , James Assent , John Rogers , Richard Cole , and John Fryers , and the remaining five ordered for execution on Wednesday the 5th of August. Charles Locket remains not reported. Robert Aystrop , James Dempsey , and Robert Jones being respited after the order for their execution. George Lovell and John Devine were accordingly executed.

George Lovell was indicted for that he in a certain field, and open place near the King's highway on Jeremiah Godwin , did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear and danger of his life, and stealing from his person four half guineas, two quarter guineas, one nine shilling piece, a six-and nine-pence, and one shilling in money, numbered, the property of the said Jeremiah.

He was a second time indicted for that be on the King's highway, on Thomas Collier did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear and danger of his life, and stealing from his person a silver watch, value fifty shillings, the property of the said Thomas.

George Lovell , alias Gypsey George, was born at Rumford , in Essex , and followed the trade of a tinker about that neighbourhood in the summer, and in the winter he used to come to town, and lodged in St. Giles's , where he became acquainted with Crookall and Ford (since executed) who soon introduced him into the company of their acquaintances. From that rime (using his own expression) “he commenced thief.” He acknowledged that he had been concerned in many robberies, though he had done very little in house-breaking. Being asked what he meant by the expression of Doing little? he said, That it signified, that he only found things of small value, as his chief business had been in picking of pockets; and that he used to attend at the play-houses for that purpose. He said that he bad been twelve times before the justices, but had always escaped, as there was not sufficient proof against him. Being desired to tell who was the person that was concerned with him in the robberies, he said, that it was Benjamin Murphey .

As soon as he found himself in the death-warrant he wept bitterly; and as he could neither read nor write, great pains were taken to instruct him in his preparation for eternity. Being asked how frequently he had gone to church? he said, that he never had attended the duties of a Sunday in his life-time. He constantly went up to chapel, where he behaved as became his unhappy situation, and owned the justice of his sentence. He was thirty years of age.

John Devine (with James Dempsey , since respired) was indicted for that he on the King's highway, on Richard Glover , Esq : did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear and danger of his life, and stealing from his person a gold watch, value fourteen pounds, a steel watch-chain, value two shillings, two cornelians set in gold, value fifty shillings, a brass watch-key, value one penny, a papier Machee snuff-box, value six-pence, a silk handkerchiefs value six-pence, and nine shillings in money, numbered, the property of the said Richard.

It appeared on the trial, that on Friday, the 26th of June, the prosecutor was stopt about half after nine, in a post-chaise, between Kingsland Turnpike and Islington by three or four men; that one of them thrust a pistol through the left side window of the chaise; he then opened the door, that another man on the other side

opened that door likewise, that they both of them forced themselves into the chaise, and took from them the things mentioned in the indictment. The fact was further confirmed by one Francis Gore an accomplice, who deposed, that he, with the prisoners, did stop the chaise and robbed the prosecutor; that afterwards they went to Duke’s-Place in order to dispose of that watch and another, and meeting with one Aaron Meyers , they asked him, If he would buy a gold watch, and a pinchbeck one, with a gold dialplate? or if he would help them to some body that would, they would give him something for his trouble; that as he was going along with them he met John Lyons (since transported) who asked him what the prisoners wanted? that he told them that they wanted to sell two watches; that Lyons desired him to take the prisoners to a public-house, and that he would come to them; that they went to the Crown in Camomile-Street ; that Lyons came there and looked over the watches, and asked what they would have for them? they asked five guineas for the gold watch, and a guinea and a half for the pinchbeck one; that Lyons offered them six guineas for both; that at first they refused it, but they went away with Lyons, and took what he had offered them.

John Devine was born in Dublin , of honest and industrious parents; who, when of age, bound him apprentice to a shoe-maker . When he had served his time he came over to England , and worked at his trade; but meeting with Gore, his countryman, he was soon led away, and by his insinuations agreed to follow his wicked course of life. He confessed that he had been concerned with him and Dempsey in two robberies, and no more. Though he was a member of the church of Rome , he was ready and willing to receive my instructions, and frequently joined in the prayers of the church with the other convicts. He was 24 years of age.

Morning of Execution.

On visiting the prisoners, about half past six, I found them in a mind very suitable to their unhappy circumstances. Being asked how it was with them? they answered, Quite easy and resigned. Their irons being partly unloosed, we went into the little room adjoining the pressyard, to spend a little time with them in prayer; a very respectable and valuable young clergyman also attended, who prayed with, and exhorted them, in a moving and pathetic manner. After which we went up to chapel; but Devine who was of the Catholic persuasion, did not communicate with his fellow convict, Lovell; but, what was very remarkable in him, after the communion, he, by his own particular desire, came up, and joined in prayer, which was a matter of thankfulness to all present, giving thereby an opportunity of speaking freely to him, and that, 'tis hoped, with blessing to his foul.

Service being over, we sung a suitable hymn, and once more recommended them to mercy, desiring them steadfastly to look to the Lord

Jesus Christ as crucified for them, he being the true and only sacrifice for sir.

On speaking of the awful change they would shortly experience, Lovell again, (as he had often before done) confessed that his sentence was just; and that he had no other hope or dependence for pardon and salvation, but the death and merits of the Lord Jesus; and that he should die in peace with all men, freely forgiving the greatest enemy he had.

I should not omit one circumstance of this poor unhappy convict's free and open confession of the little knowledge he had of religion: A worthy clergyman, who visited him while under sentence, speaking to him of the power and efficacy of the blood of Christ to wash away sins; he said, that he had scarce ever heard of Christ, for that he could neither read nor write. And when spoken to, before admitted to the Lord's table, he told me, he knew not what it meant. O shocking stupidity! Is it possible that such ignorance can so prevail in a christian country! How careful ought parents to be in training up their children in a true and saving knowledge of religion; which would be a great means of preserving them from falling into many vices of the present age, which the ignorant and unwary are daily rushing into.

Prayers being ended, they went down from chapel, in order to be prepared, The sheriff’s officer soon came: Their irons being knocked off, they were haltered and pinioned, and put into one cart. They arrived at the place of execution a quarter before eleven, where we joined in prayer, recommending them to the mercy of God, Lovell informed me, that Ben. Murphy ran away with the gentleman's watch, and that his sentence was no more than what he had long before deserved; but he hoped that God would forgive him; as he forgave every one. - Devine said he died in charity with all mankind. Soon after which they suffered their sentence.

An ACCOUNT of the BEHAVIOUR Of John Jones , John Sunderland , Alias Sandiland , John Chapman , and John Creamer .

By virtue of the King's commission of the peace, oyer and terminer, and goal-delivery, of Newgate, holden for the city of London and county of Middlesex, at Justice-hall in the Old-Bailey, before the Right Honourable William Nash , Esq . Lord Mayor of the city of London ; Sir William Henry Ashurst , Knt . one of the justices of his Majesty’s court of King's-bench ; Sir George Nares , Knt . one of his Majesty's justices of

the court of Common-pleas; James Eyre , Esq . Recorder , and others his Majesty's justices of oyer and terminer of the city of London, and justices of goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said city and county of Middlesex, on Wednesday the 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th of September; in the 12th year of his Majesty's reign, sixteen persons were capitally convicted, and received sentence of death for the several crimes set forth in their indictments, viz.

John Leary Lewis Williams , Arthur Byrne , Isaac Poulton , Edward Burton , George Kem , alias Butcher , Benjamin Johnson , John Jones , John Sunderland , alias Sandiland , John Chapman , John Browning , Mary Trubridge , Ann Silver , John Creamer , Benjamin Rogers . John Wyld died before the report was made; and Charles Locket remains not reported.

And on Wednesday the 7th of Oct. the report of the said malefactors being made to his Majesty, by Mr. Recorder, ten of then were respited; namely, John Leary , Lewis Williams , Arthur Byrne , Isaac Poulton , Edward Burton , George Kem , alias Butcher , Benjamin Johnson , John Browning , Mary Trubridge , Ann Silver ; and the remaining five ordered for execution on the Wednesday following; Benjamin Rogers died after the order came for execution; and four were accordingly executed.

John Jones and John Sunderland , otherwise Sandiland , were indicted for breaking and entering the dwelling-house of Aaron Franks Esq . on the second of September about the hour of two in the morning, and stealing one silver sauce-pan, value ten-shillings, one pair of silver kneebuckles, value four-shillings, and one pair of silver garter-buckles, value two shillings, the property of the said Aaron Franks , Esq. one gold watchchain, value twenty shillings, two seals set in gold, value twenty shillings, six linen stocks, value three shillings, eight pair of silk stockings, value thirty shillings, two silk handkerchiefs, value four shillings, five other pocket handkerchiefs, value five shillings, five linen shirts, value forty shillings, one flannel-waistcoat, value five shillings, and one pair of laced ruffles, value forty-shillings, the property of Jacob Franks Esq . one cloth coat, value twenty shillings, one cloth waistcoat, value five shillings, two other linen shirts, value four shillings one cornelian seal set in silver, value two shillings, one pair of silk stockings, value one shilling, and one pair of thread stockings, value six-pence, the property of Joseph Grover ; four other shirts, value sixteen shillings, two pair of worsted stockings, value three shillings, the property of Phineas Ghent , and one thickset frock, value fifteen shillings, the property of Richard Varley , in the dwelling house of the said Aaron Franks , Esq.

John Jones was born at Uxbridge , in the county of Middlesex , of honest and industrious parents, who gave him an education suitable to their circumstances, and when of proper age,

put him apprentice to a poulterer . When he had served his time, he set up for himself in the country, but as he did not succeed so well as he could wish, and having a wife and a young family, he came to London , and worked as a labourer to maintain them. He often expressed “that was the happiest part of his life:” Afterwards he got to be a servant in a dyehouse in Spitalfields , where he continued, till unfortunately for him, he became acquainted with his brotherin-law’s manner of living, who enticed him away from his place, promising him a sufficient support if he would receive what he should bring him and dispose of them: from that time he dates his own ruin and the destruction of his family. The first of his new calling was one hundred and fifty pounds, that he received for disposing of some bank-notes, and other valuable things to one Saunders a Jew, that Brent had robbed Lady Mays of, and for which he has been since executed, and Jones was an evidence against him: with the wages of his iniquity, he set up a public-house, as a randezvous for persons of his own stamp, who used his house, and he became the disposer of stolen goods for them, reserving a handsome premium for his trouble: This did not last long, for it is justly observed, that ill gotten wealth seldom prospers the possessor, which he found to be true: for being reduced once more to a state of poverty, he was obliged to visit a randezvous of thieves to find a companion, who had lately been the commander of many. Amongst people of that class he found Thomas and John Brent , brothers of the abovementioned William ; and, as he used to say, That he thought he could trust his own relations best, (Though Willim had not experienced that in him) they soon agreed to become partners. To carry on their illicit practices, with all the precaution he could, he sends them about the country to mark what houses were proper for their purposes, and then they, acquainting him, went and robbed the houses of what they could get. The first attempt of their alliance, was the robbery of Mr. Franks’s house two years ago, when Jones disposed of the effects to the above-mentioned Saunders.

The next robbery of consequence, was committed at the house of Mr. Grant, at Brentford , where Jones, in his first attempt to get in, broke open the outside shutter, but finding an inside one, he thought proper to look further, and fee if they could get in some other way: In their seeking about, they perceived a window with no outside shutter, where they soon accomplished their design. And now being in the house, their business was to find what they could for their purpose. They soon perceived a box, which they immediately took into the garden to examine its contents; where they found a great quantity of plate, which they hid for that night, and left the box. Having fetched away the plate, they brought it to Saunders, and fold it to him at three shillings and six-pence an ounce. On their dividing the money, they shared fifty pounds each. He could not exactly tell me what number of ounces the plate consifted of, but I have been well informed

by the loser of it, that there was near one thousand ounces. With this booty he lived well as long as the money lasted. Being short of money again he returns to his old trade, and where should he go to find something that would bring him money, but to Mr. Franks's house, where he had been successful before, and that he had never been discovered for it. For this purpose he appoints the two Brents to meet him near the place at such a time, and he would come to them. In the mean time he communicates, the affair to Sunderland, and asked him to go along with him, assuring him that as he knew the house perfectly well, he need not be afraid of its answering their journey, Sunderland at first seemed to refuse going, but as he told me that he had not a six-pence in his pocket at that time, necessity obliged him at last to comply - accordingly they met at the appointed place. Jones and the Brents, as they knew the house better than Sunderland, broke into it, while he kept a loot out: When they had finished their business, Jones and Sunderland came to London , and left the Brents behind, promising to send, them their share when the things were sold.

They went to Saunders's, as usual, with the things, but when he came to know that they were brought from Mr. Franks’s house, he was afraid to meddle with them, and refused to buy them: Upon this they took the things to Sunderland's house, and Jones went and brought one Thomas there, and offered the things to him for sale; but he was disappointed in the end, for Thomas, under a pretence of buying them, went and brought with him some other persons, and by their assistance secured Jones and Sunderland, and took them before a justice.

The fact was fully confirmed on the trial, and Jones, with Sunderland, was capitally convicted.

In my conversation with him he desired me to acquaint Mr. Graft that his servants were intirely innocent of the robbery done in his house, as the gardener belonging to him had been taken up on suspicion of robbing him - that it was done by him with John and Thomas Brent his brothers in law - that he had not been acquainted with Sunderland above fourteen months, in which time they had committed but a few robberies, and those of no great consequence, excepting Mr. Franks’s - that they went out one night to break into a house in Lincoln's-innfields , but Sunderland's heart failed him, and he ran away, so that Jones did not attempt any further that night.

Whilst he was under sentence of death he behaved with seriousness and attention to the duties of the chapel, until he was prevented from coming there by sickness. He owned that he had had sufficient warning, as having been admitted an evidence more than once: He wished that the Brents would leave their ill courses of life, and consider that not only their own brother had lately suffered, but that

he was shortly to suffer too - Convinced of his own unworthiness, and ashamed of his past conduct, he earnestly intreated the mercy of God to pardon him, and he spent his time as his health permitted him, in using those means that were the most likely for him to receive that mercy which he prayed for, and he continued in that disposition until the morning of his execution. He was 26 years of age.

John Sunderland , alias Sandiland, (with John Jones ) was indicted for the same offence.

John Sunderland , alias Sandiland , was born at Westrop , near SevenOaks , in Kent , of honest and industrious parents, who had him taught reading and writing, and when he was able to work for his living he came to London , and followed the employment of a gentleman's footboy , until he grew up and was sit for a coachman , in which station he continued for many years with a fair character.

Having received a hurt in one of his legs, which rendered him at times unfit for a constant attendance in a gentleman's family, he, left that service and followed occasionally the employment of a hackney coachman .

Being of a free disposition, when he had any money he seldom wanted for a friend to drink with him; unhappily for him he fell into the company of one Hudson, who has not only been the ruin of Sunderland, but of many others also; and well would it be for him if this account should fall into his hands, and he would reflect a little, that he may avoid the same ignominious end.

Hudson finding his new acquaintance of an easy temper, and that it did not require much trouble to persuade him to leave his business sometimes, and fit in the alehouse best part of the day, invited him to go one evening to a public house near Fleetmarket , to sup with some of his friends. Sunderland, not suspecting what kind of company he should meet with there, went and spent the evening, which he often wished that he never had done.

Soon after a relation of his wife's died, and left her one hundred and thirty odd pounds, which he received - and now he thought that he might turn it to a good account, as the landlord did his where the club was held, near Fleet-market. He communicated his thoughts to Hudson, who immediately tells him, that if he would take a public house he would bring the club there - and that he and some others would lodge in his house.

With these pleasing prospects of gain, and being rendered incapable of following his business constantly, by reason of his lameness, and not willing to live on the spend, he looked out for one. In a little time after he took the public house , known by the sign of the Ax in Little Gray's-innlane . His friend Hudson was as good as his word, for he brought the club there, and soon filled his house with lodgers - such as Thumper,

Jones, Finikin, and others (who have beep since executed).

In this manner he went on, and he thought that he might as well go out of a night with them, as well as to harbour them, and be a sharer of their spoils.

The first night he went out was with Thumper to rob a house in Cold-Bath fields ; but being naturally timorous he came home, and whilst he kept the house contented himself with what he could get of them.

Here it was that he became acquainted with Jones; but he, like Jones, could not keep his house long. The club returned to their former house, and he was obliged to become a member of it.

His circumstances now being desperate he thought of nothing but of getting money where he could; and knowing that that person who had taken his house had by him some money, he tells Thumper of it, who well knowing the house, easily broke into it, and took away between thirty and forty pounds.

He owned the circumstances of Mr. Franks's robbery, excepting that Durant had sworn falsly in saying that he had told him, “that he was the first person that entered the room," whereas he never was in the house, but stood without to keep a look-out, and that he never saw the house before in his life, neither did he know where he was going to when Jones called on him; but this he knew, that he was going to break into some gentleman's house.

The robberies that had been committed about Hatton-garden, Coldbath-fields, and Purpool-lane, he told me were committed by Thumper; and Mr. Franks’s robbery was the greatest that he had ever been concerned in, and for that he shared fifty shillings, being part of the money that Jones brought out of the house.

The behaviour of this convict was such as became his unhappy situation, and he gave all diligence and attention to the instructions given him. He was quite open in his answers to every question that was put to him. He lamented much that the world looked upon him as the worst of villains, when he knew himself not deserving of that reproach.

He acknowledged that he had kept bad company, and that law had doomed him to suffer for this offence justly.

Before the report of the convicts was made, he fell sick, and was confined to his cell. What he further related, and the manner of his latter behaviour, is made known to the public on the morning of his execution. He was 45 years of age.

John Chapman was indicted, for breaking and entering the dwelling-house of Richard Spratley , on the 12th of july, between the hours of twelve and two in the night, and stealing six silver tea-spoons, value six shillings, a silver table-spoon, value four shillings, a silver pepper castor, value two shillings, two da

mask linen table-cloths, value eight shillings, four linen aprons, value four shillings, one striped lawn apron, value one shilling, a cloth coat, value two shillings, a black crape apron, value two shillings, a pair of men's shoes, value six shillings, one pair of base metal shoe buckles, value threepence, and six yards of check cotton, value six shillings, the property of Richard Spratley , in his dwellinghouse.

He was a second time indicted, (with James Nimmey , jun .) for breaking and entering the dwelling house of Thomas Mahoney , on the 5th of July, about the hour of one in the night, and stealing a silk handkerchief, and two linen handkerchiefs, value two shillings, four china bowls, value twenty shillings, one earthen bowl, value sixp-ence, one pair of gold weights and scales, value one shilling, one leather box, value one shilling, and thirty six halfpence, the property of the said Thomas in his dwelling-house

In the course of the trial, it appeared, by one Evans an accomplice, that Chapman ordered him to look out that nobody came by, whilst he with a chissel broke open the shutter of the window, that Chapman struck a light; and then they got in, pulling the window-shutter to again, that they opened the drawers, and took out what was in them; and in the same room they found a silver pepper castor, and some silver spoons, as mentioned in the indictment.

John Chapman was born at Whitby , and brought up in the colliery trade from his youth. In the last war he entered into the service of the Royal Navy , where he continued nine years, and was at the taking of several places. His behaviour whilst he continued m that service was very well. Having received several wounds, so as to disable him from serving any longer, he had his proper discharge. From that time he plied as a helper to a waterman in wapping , and worked with him for three years.

Lodging at Mrs. M'Cloud's house, he soon became acquainted with her son (since executed) with whom he committed his first robbery; which, was done at a house near Queen-Stairs , in the parish of Rotherhithe , called Redriff, on the Surry side, where they broke open a desk, and took away eighty guineas: there were some bank notes, which they did not chuse to meddle with, as Chapman said, “For fear they might lead to a discovery of their persons, and endanger their lives:" With him, and some other young lads, he committed several other robberies, in and about Shadwell and Wapping ; but as to the robbery that he was committed to the New-Goal in the Borough for, he said he was intirely innocent of, being at the time it was done in Newgate ; but he knew that M’Cloud did it, as well as a robbery in Burr-Street, near St. Catherine's, with which he was also charged. Being asked to whom he generally sold his things? he said, to a Jew silversmith in Wapping, if he had any plate, but as he had sold but little, it did not signify telling his name, as the plate was commonly

broke to pieces before it was weighed and bought. Being desired to inform me whether he was concerned in the breaking into Mr. Hankey’s house, at Poplar, with M’Cloud, for which he suffered? He said No, for I was in bed at his mother's house at the time it was done. These being the material accounts that he gave me, it will now be necessary to mention his behaviour: And it was such as became his condition. He shewed at all times sincere marks of repentance, and was very willing to be instructed in his duty. He constantly attended the chapel, and behaved with seriousness and devotion. He acknowledged that his sentence was just, and he sincerely and heartily forgave every one. He was admitted to the Lord’s table with Jones and Sunderland on Sunday the 11th, where he wept, and prayed that God for Christ's sake would forgive him. He was 43 years of age.

John Creamer was indicted for returning from transportation before the expiration of his time, for which he was transported. The record of his conviction was read; by which it appears, that he was tried in May session, 1769, for stealing eight guineas one half guinea, a quarter guinea, the property or John Lothian , in the dwelling house of William Figg , for which he was capitally convicted, but afterwards received his Majesty's mercy upon condition of transportation for fourteen years.

John Creamer was born in the Western part of Ireland ; and while he was young, his parents came over to England . When he grew up, he was put apprentice to a taylor in Holborn . His master dying, he was left to shift for himself; but as he had served some part of his time, he was able to get his bread, and supported himself. Soon after he married, and having a young family, and being at that time out of work, he was led to commit the robbery. Being desired to tell if he had committed any other, he said, “No, sir, nor did I ever keep company with, or knew any one that did go out a robbing, that was my first and last fact; nor have I done any thing of the kind since I came over, but have worked hard to maintain my family.Being told that he should have staid abroad his time, he answered, "That he had heard that his wife and children were in the parish work house, and he thought that if he came over, he could work in the country, and send for his wife and children, and nobody would find him out." He said that he came over last March, and did work in the country, and lived with his family. But, unfortunately for him, he came to London to see a friend on some business, and going to drink with him at a public house, a man came in that knew him, who immediately gave information of him, and he was taken up.

He thought it hard that he should suffer, as his intention was honest and good. Being a member of the church of Rome , he did not attend the chapel; but was ready and willing to receive my instructions, and behaved, while under sentence of death, with decency. He was 25 years of age.

MORNING OF EXECUTION. OCTOBER 14, 1772.

THE prisoners were brought down from their cells about a quarter before seven. Their behaviour was every way becoming their unhappy situation.

The appearance of Sunderland and Jones was really moving and affecting by reason of their late illness of a bad fever, of which Sunderland was never expected to have recovered: He was so weak and low that he could scarcely support himself.

Chapman, while his irons were unloosing, said, ‘Ah! these will soon fall to the lot of some poor unhappy fellow!' Sunderland and Jones were not fettered, the low and sickly condition they were in not requiring it.

Being now ready they went up to chapel, except Creamer, who was of the Catholic persuasion: Sunderland went up first: it was a few minutes before Jones and Chapman followed. In this short interval of time Sunderland said, 'O how cold am I! I am now as cold as I have been lately hot and distracted with a fever, when I was so light-headed, that nothing run in my mind but a respite was come down, and wondered at their keeping me in my cells. Once upon a time little did I think of coming to this untimely end!’

When Jones came up (who had occasion to wait a little behind) he, with a very decent and christian-like behaviour, fell on his knees to ask God's blessing.

After being severalty spoken to and prayed with, they were admitted to the Lord's table, of which they partook, 'tis hoped, to their everlasting comfort.

They were then again recommended in prayer to the mercy of Christ; desiring them stedfastly to look to him as crucified for them, and to be sensible that their sentence was just, but that he, the innocent and immaculate Lamb of God, suffered, the Just for the unjust, and was treated with the greatest shame and ignominy, to take away their curse. They were once more reminded to look unto him, and to let nothing, that

might pass on their way, divert their attention from him.

The clock striking eight, Sunderland listed up his hands and said, “We have not three hours more to live in this world.”

Service being ended, they went down from chapel to be made ready. Creamer, while the halter was fixing about him, wrung his hands and wept bitterly, and said, at going out, “God forgive them that have taken away my life for returning back to my own country!”

They arrived at the place of execution at half past ten; and when tied up, I went to perform the last office to them. They behaved with decency. And having again acknowledged that their sentence was just, except Creamer, who thought it rather hard, as he had committed no robbery since his return; but he was told to remember, that he had deserved to die before, and had received mercy: "True, says he, it is so; well, God forgive every one."

They were once more recommended in prayer to the mercy of God, and then soon were turned off, crying out, Lord, receive our spirits.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TEMPLE , ASSISTANT-ORDINARY OF NEWGATE .

POSTSCRIPT.

THE melancholy view afforded us of the dreadful catastrophes of the unhappy persons who have been the subject of the foregoing account, lead us, in pity to the rising generation, to offer a few reflections to the public in general, which we hope may prove a means to stem the torrent of immorality and vice, by which multitudes of the unwary, and especially our thoughtless youth, are brought their untimely end.

First. It is highly incumbent on parents, if they have a proper tenderness for their offspring, to spare no pains for the education of their children; and when they have learnt to read, to prevent their reading such

obscene books as tend to inflame their minds with lewd ideas, which are the fore-runners of vicious practices. It is also their duty as they prize their eternal welfare, to instruct them in the principles of the Protestant religion, and, by their good examples and exhortations, to produce in them, at all opportunities, a delight in such ways as lead to sobriety, industry, and regularity, as well as to enforce their precepts by all suitable encouragements and rewards - Such a conduct, as is not only highly consistent with their duty, but likewise greatly promotive of the happiness of posterity, and its salutary effects will undoubtedly cause the children yet unborn to applaud and bless them.

Secondly. What an inundation of wickedness and misery would be prevented, if the masters in this great and populous city would keep a watchful eye over the youth committed to their care, by restraining them from the use of such liberties as are productive of the most pernicious consequences to others! Young people, from a vain affection of their own importance, are too frequently desirous of associating indiscriminately with profane and immoral persons, especially such as multitudes of the public houses in this extensive metropolis abound with, where their natural propensity to vice occasions them to be unthinkingly carried down its lethiserous stream, until ruin overtakes them, and they are cut off from society at a time when they might, by sober and moral behaviour, become useful members of it. It is therefore earnestly recommended to all masters and mistresses, as they will shortly give an account at the awful bar, to oblige the servants under their care to keep strict and regular hours at night, to attend the public worship on Sundays, and to prevent, by all possible means, their keeping such company as contribute to corrupt and deprave their morals.

Thirdly, It were much to be wished, for the benefit of the community, that the houses of dissipation and riot as harbour the vicious of both sexes, and are interspersed in various places as traps to ensnare the incautious, were suppressed; for it is notorious, that great numbers of those unhappy youths who have ended their days at the gallows, have dated their ruin, either from their connection with bad women, who patrole the streets in crouds, as is in defiance of all authority both human and divine, or else in those receptacles of debauchery and villany, which, by searing the conscience, train up numbers of youth of both sexes in the paths of wickedness and destruction.

It is therefore hoped these few hints will induce all such as have the guardianship of young people, to use their utmost efforts by example, admonition, and the power they are invested with, to guide and preserve them in that track of sobriery and virtue, which alone is capable of procuring solid felicity to themselves, their dependents, and in general.

FINIS.

