THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF

The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that mere Executed at Tyburn, on Saturday the 24th of October, 1713.

AT the Sessions at Justice-Hall in the Old-baily, on Wednesday, the 14th; and from that Day, by Adjournment, held on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 15th, 16th, and 17th instant, Nine Persons, viz. Four Men, and Five Women, that were Try'd for, Convicted, and brought in Guilty of several Capital Crimes, did accordingly receive Sentence of Death: But Two of the Women being then found pregnant, and the other Three, with Two Men, having since obtain'd the Mercy of HER MAJESTY's Gracious Reprieve, (which I wish they may be so wise as duly to improve) only Two of the Men are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them every Day, both in the Morning and Afternoon, brought up to the Chapel of Newgate, where I pray'd with them, and read and explain'd the Word of God to them, giving them such Instructions and Admonitions out of it, as I thought most proper (in the sad Circumstances they were under) to comfort their Souls, and dispose them to imploy the few and precious Moments they had now to continue in this Life, to the great Use and Purpose of Eternal Salvation in the Life to come: And to this End,

On the Lord's Day the 18th instant, I preach'd to them, both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, upon part of the Second Lesson for that Morning-Service, viz. St. Luke 4.8. And Jesus said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan: For it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and Him only shalt thou serve.

In my Explanation of this Text, I shew'd,

First, That as the Devil had once (and more than once) the impudence to assault our great Lord and Master with his Temptations, so we may well expect (and must provide against) his doing the like to us.

Secondly, That the infallible Way for us both to resist and effectually repel all Temptations, and baffle and utterly disappoint the Tempter, is (in imitation of Christ) to arm our selves in this our spiritual Warfare, against that grand Adversary the Devil, with the Word of God, which (to this purpose) we ought to learn and obey; making it the principal Subject of our Study, and the constant Practice of our Life.

Thirdly and Lastly, That a Religious Adoration and Worship is not to be given to any Creature, (no, not to the Angels or Archangels themselves) but only to the Creator of all things (the Great GOD of Heaven and Earth,) who alone has a Right thereto.

Having gone thro' those Points, and fully spoke to them in general, I then consider'd in particular these Two following, viz.

I. What is meant by the word [WORSHIP] us'd by our Saviour in the Text.

II. What the WORSHIPERS of GOD must be.

Upon these I enlarg'd; and then in my Application I endeavour'd these three Things, viz.

1. To enforce upon my Auditory, the absolute Necessity of Holy and Religious Living among the Professors of Christianity.

2. To urge the Practice of this Duty, because by it we may become, and will be accounted, true Worshipers, and arrive to a sort of Likeness and Conformity to GOD himself.

3. To win them to the Love and strict Performance of this, by laying before them the moving Considerations of GOD's Good-will, tender Care, compassionate Love, and Mercy to us his undeserving Creatures.

Which having done, I concluded all, for the present, with a particular Exhortation to the Condemn'd; desiring them seriously and impartially to examine themselves, and see, " How defective they had been " in their Duty to GOD, to their Neighbour, and to their own Souls: " Who, for want of having the Fear of GOD before their Eyes, had " hitherto (as I might well suppose) but little regard to His Sacred " Word, and had not paid the Reverence and Worship due to Him inwardly in their Hearts; as it plainly appear'd they had most presumptuously dishonour'd Him outwardly in their Actions, by daring to " do what He has strictly forbidden, and leave undone what He has " expresly commanded, for all which they must expect to be call'd to " a severe Account, unless they took care to prevent it by a thorough " Repentance of their Sins of Omission and Commission, before the short " Time they had now to live, was spent, and their irreversible Judgment past.

With these and the like weighty Considerations, which I offer'd to them, I endeavour'd to stir up their Hearts to an earnest Application to that good GOD, whom they had thus miserably offended; " That of " His great Mercy He would please to take pity of their poor immortal " Souls, and retrieve them from the Danger they were in of being lost " for ever; earnestly imploring His powerful Assisting Grace, that by " it they might truly Believe, sincerely Repent; and so, be eternally " Saved.

To all which publick Exhortations they seem'd to be very attentive, as they also were to my private Admonitions, when I examin'd 'em by themselves about their former Lives, present Dispositions, and Hopes of a future State. Concerning which they gave me the respective

Accounts following: Wherein I found, that being sensible of the shortness of their Time, they made a better use of it, thinking less of this World and more of another, than I have observ'd others to do in like Circumstances, who were entertain'd with the flattering deceitful Hope of a longer Life here.

1. Thomas Lloyd , condemn'd for the stealing of two Geldings, with Bridles, Saddles, &c. belonging to Mr. Michael Combs of Hendon in the County of Middlesex , on the 17th day of September last. He said, he was 28 years of age, born at Hambleden in Buckinghamshire , and had for these 18 Months past liv'd at Shepperton in Middlesex : That he was an Husband-man , and had all along maintain'd himself and his Family by hard Labour, and lived a very honest Life, till of late he fell into bad Company, by which he was induc'd to do evil Things, as Drinking, Swearing, Whoring, profaning of the Lord's Day, and stealing the Horses he is now to die for, which he confess'd was his just Reward, tho' the first Fact, either of that kind, or of any other that the Law punishes with Death, he ever was guilty of. He being made sensible that one Sin generally draws on another, and a Man cannot tell where to stop when once he enters into the Paths of Wickedness, he said, That the Fact for which he now suffer'd, was the Effect of another; for he committed it after he had (thro' wicked Perswasion) been made so drunk, that he hardly knew what he did; for had he then been Master of himself and of his Reason, he would not have done it. He express'd a great deal of Sorrow for his having thus offended GOD, and injur'd his Neighbour; humbly praying for Pardon, and hoping that as he was truly griev'd for his Sins, and heartily repented of them all, he should find Mercy with GOD, thro' JESUS CHRIST; on whose alone Merits he depended for Salvation: Adding, That now he was willing to die, and that he dy'd in Charity with all the World.

2. Thomas Pickard , condemn'd for stealing and carrying away a Gelding. He said, he was about 20 years of age, born at Collerton in Leicestershire , and liv'd all the while with his Father, a Carpenter and Grazier, both in that Place, and at Caldecote in Rutlandshire , whither they remov'd about a Twelve-month since, and there follow'd the said Occupations of Carpentry and Grazing . He confess'd the Fact for which he was to die; but said it was his first, and that he never did an ill thing before; neither was given to the common Vices of Drinking, Swearing, Whoring, and the like. But his Father (whose only Son he was) being one Night (about three Weeks ago) angry with him, turned him out of Doors; hen he not knowing what to do, went to Huntington , and seeing in the Fields, about half a Mile from that Town, a brown Gelding (which i seems belong'd to one Mr. Thomas Deacon ) he took him away; and with him came to Islington near London , intending to have sold him in West Smithfield ; but was prevented in it, by his being apprehended before he could have that Horse book'd. Finding, that he could not read, and consequently very ignorant, I ask'd him, " How he was brought up, and whether his Parents did send him to " School, or no, when young? To which he answer'd, That he had " always liv'd with his Father, and was never put to Reading,

" Writing, or any thing else, but Carpenter's Work and looking after " Cattle. Further, I ask'd him, Whether he was a Protestant. He said, " No. Whether a Roman Catholick: He reply'd, No. What are you " then? (said I to him) What Religion are you of? He answer'd, I Am-" He could not tell What. By which, and several other Expressions of his, I perceiv'd he had little or no Education in Matters of Religion: And upon this I instructed him in (as far as he was able to learn) those Saving Truths which all Christians ought to know, and to practice to their Souls Health; shewing him, " By Whom, and to what end he was " made: By Whom, and from What Misery he was redeem'd: And, " By Whom, and How he might be sanctify'd, and brought into a State " of Grace in this World, in order to his being (after Death) admitted " into a State of Glory in the next; and so, escape the Damnation of " Hell.

At these Words [The Damnation of Hell] he started, and seem'd to be very much concern'd and afraid; saying, that to avoid it, he would do any thing; and therefore desir'd my further Instructions to him, and my Prayers for him; which he had. And as I did earnestly exhort him, That he would pray for Grace to Repent of his Sins, and Believe in the Lord JESUS CHRIST; he said, he was heartily sorry for whatever he had done amiss; and believ'd that JESUS CHRIST was the Saviour of the World, and, that He would be a Saviour to him also.

At the Place of Execution, to which they were both of them carry'd this Day out of Newgate in a Cart, I attended them for the last time, and (as I usually do in such melancholy Case) discharg'd my Ministerial Office to them, by Exhortations, Prayers singing of Psalms, rehearsing of the Apostles Creed with them, and finally commending their departing Souls into the Hands of a faithful Creator, and most merciful Saviour. Which done, I withdrew, and left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allotted them. Then they spoke to the People to this Effect, That they should take Warning by them; shun ill Company, and not sin as they had done, that they come not to this untimely End. After this, they apply'd themselves with their last Breath to GOD for Pardon and Salvation; and the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, while each of them were uttering such and the like Ejaculations; LORD, have mercy upon me! O CHRIST, save me! LORD JESUS, receive me!

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Malefactors. To which I shall add,

A Numerical Account of all the Malefactors who have been Condemned, Repriev'd, and Executed, (as likewise of those that Dy'd in Newgate between the Day of their Condemnation, and that appointed for their Execution) in London and Middlesex, from the Time of my being chosen to be the Minister and Ordinary of Newgate, (which was in November 1700) to the Close of the late Mayoralty.

NB. When I first enter'd upon this arduous and melancholy Office, in the Beginning of the Mayoralty of the Right Honourable Sir THOMAS ABNEY , Knight, I found no less than 65 Persons that had lain for a great while before under Condemnation, viz. 52 Pirates (who were for the most part Foreigners) and 13 other Criminals. Of the Pirates, 24 were Hanged at one time at the Execution-Dockin Wapping, and of the 13 other Malefactors, 8 were Executed at Tyburn.

In the Mayoralty of 1. Sir Thomas Abney , Kt. Condemn'd. 118 Repriev'd. 48 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 4 Executed. 66 2. Sir William Gore , Kt. Condemn'd. 49 Repriev'd. 36 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 13 3. Sir Samuel Dashwood , Kt. Condemn'd. 38 Repriev'd. 20 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 4. Sir John Parsons , Kt. Condemn'd. 35 Repriev'd. 18 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 17 5. Sir Owen Buckingham , Kt. Condemn'd. 44 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 16 6. Sir Thomas Rawlinson , Kt. Condemn'd. 33 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 5 7. Sir Robert Bedingfield , Kt. Condemn'd. 23 Repriev'd. 5 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 8. Sir William Withers , Kt. Condemn'd. 34 Repriev'd. 16 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 9. Sir Charles Duncomb , Kt. Condemn'd. 39 Repriev'd. 29 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 10 10. Sir Sam. Garrard, Kt. &Bart Condemn'd. 36 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 8 11. Sir Gilbert Heathcote , Kt. Condemn'd. 36 Repriev'd. 23 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 13 12. Sir Robert Beachcroft , Kt. Condemn'd. 43 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 15 13. Sir Richard Hoare , Kt. Condemn'd. 60 Repriev'd. 35 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 25 Total - Condemn'd. 588 Repriev'd. 342 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 4 Executed. 242

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate.

Saturday, Octob. 24. 1713.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new sett of Cuts, adapted to several sizes of Common-prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam; engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate ; where may be had all sorts of Bibles, either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sixes; Common-prayers in Folio, for the use of Churches; Common-prayers in 8° & 12°. All neatly bound. Duty of Man's Works of all sizes; Duty of Man in Latin; Latin and Welsh Common-prayers; Tate and Brady's new Version of Psalms, with the new Supplement: Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament, Mr. Clutterbuck on the Liturgy; The Statutes at large, in 3 vol. Bp Beveridge's Sermons and private Thoughts, &c.

Books set forth by Paul Lorrain , before he was, and since he is Ordinary of Newgate .

A Guide to Salvation; or, the Way to Eternal Bliss. Sold by William Meadows near the Royal Exchange in Cornhill . The last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse: And, the dying Man's Assistant. Both printed for, and sold by John Lawrence at the Angel in the Poultry . Moral and Divine Maxims. Minutius Felix; or, a Vindication of Christianity against Paganism. Funeral Rites of all Nations. A Discourse of Christianity, with the Character of a true Christian. A Sermon preach'd upon an especial Occasion, and dedicated to the Lord High-Treasurer of Great Britain. Publish'd by John Morphew near Stationers-hall , Sondon .

DR. Tipping's Original Famous Liquor for dissolving the Stone in the Bladder or Kidneys, bringing away visibly whatever Gravel may be generated in those Parts. Likewise gives immediate ease in the most inveterate Pains of the Cholick, Gout, and Rheumatism; and soon after restores the use of Limbs. Is truly and faithfully prepar'd, and sold by Matthew Clarke , Apothecary in Little-Britain , near West-Smithfield , London .

N. B. All those that are desirous of selling this excellent Liquor, by applying themselves to the said Matthew Clarke , shall find all fitting Encouragement.

MEditations of a Divine Soul; or the Christians Guide amidst the various Opinions of a vain World, where Religion is the Language of all, but is only practis'd by one Community. Also Arguments to to prove there is no Material Fire in Hell. The irregular Practice of Imperious Clergy detected; aad the safest Way to Happiness made known: With an ingenious Recantation of a greater Proficient in the School of Atheism than the late Earl of Rochester; and several other Curious Subjects worthy of Note; particularly express'd in the Table of Contents. To which is added, an Essay of a retir'd Solitary Life: With an after-Thought on King William the Third. The Second Edition, Corrected and Enlarg'd; with several New Additions. London Printed, and Sold by J. Baker, at the Black-Boy in Pater-noster-row.

Just publish'd, the 8th Edition of

THE Whiggs Unmask'd; being the Secret History of the Calves-head-Club, containing all their Treasonable Songs at their King-

killing Clubs. Adorn'd with new Cuts. Much enlarg'd by a genuine Account of all the Plots and Labals of the Whiggish Faction, against the Queen and Ministry, to this present Time, never before Printed, &c. Sold by John Morphew , near Stationers-hall . Where may be had Sir William Cavendish 's Memoirs of Cardinal Woolsey, containing all his Negociations and Treaties of Peace betwixt England and France. The Memoirs of Robert Earl of Leicester, Prime Minister and Favourite of Queen Elizabeth. The Virgin Unmask'd; or, Female Dialogues betwixt an Old Lady and a Virgin, on Love and Marriage, by Dr. Mandevil.

In a few Days will be printed and publish'd in a Pocket Volume.

The History of the Lives of the most noted Highwaymen, Footpads, Danseers, Soplitters, &c. of both Sexes in and about London, and other parts of Great Britain, for above fifty Years last past; wherein the Secret History of their several Robberies, Thefts, Cheats, and Mthers, is collected by Capt. Alexander Smith .

This Day will be publish'd the 4th Edition of The Works of Petronious Arbiter, translated by several eminent Hands, with a Key by a Person of Quality; and his Life and Character, by Mons. St. Evremont; to which is added some o her of the Roman Poets, viz. Catullus ibullus, and Propertius; and select Translations from the Greek of Pindar, Anachreon, and Sappho; by several Hands. A Poem on Telemachus, by the Duke of Devonshire; and an Essay on Poetry, by John Duke of Buckingham ; adorn'd with cuts. Printed for Sam. Briscoe , and sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall: Where may be had the Works of Longinus, translated from the Greek by John Digby , Esq; And the fourth and last Volume of the Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , which compleats his whole Works. NB. Such Gentlemen that will make up Setts of that Author, must send speedily thither; for after none will be sold but in Setts.

A Warning against Popery. Being an Account of the late Conversion of Mr. John Barvill , alias Barton , an Eminent Romish-Priest to the Reform'd Church of England: Being the compleatest Account of the gross Cheats and Errors which was ever published of that Church, of the Confutation of the Doctrin of Transubstantiation, of Purgatory, forbidding Priests to marr4, and the Price of Sins. Very proper to be read in all Protestant Families at this time. Printed for John Phillips , at the Black-Bull against the Loyal Exchange in Cornhill . 1713. Price bound 2 s. 6 d.

There is in the Press, & will be speedily publish'd,

The compleat Wos of George, late Duke of Buckingham, in 2 vol. Containing all his Play, Poems, Satyrs Letters, Speeches, adorn'd with cuts, the Third Edition. To which is added, a Collection of Speeches in the House of Lords and Commons from the Time of the Grand Rebellion to the last Sessions of Parliament; by several Honourable Lords and Commoners. Printed for Sam. Briscoe , and sold by John Morphew , near Stationers-hall .

A New Voyage to the Island of Fools, representing the Policy, Government, and present State of the Stultitians, by a Noble Venetian. Incrib'd to the Right Honourable, the Lord Ferdinando. Printed for John Morphew near Stationers-hall .

Just Publish'd,

Vulgus Britannicus; or, the British Hudibras, in 15 Canto's. Containing the secret History of the London Mob; their Rise, Progress, and Suppression, intermix'd with the Civil Wars betwixt High-Church and Low-Church, at this time: Being a Continuation of the late ingenious Mr. Butler's Hudibras. In five Parts, compleat in one Volume. By the Author of the London Spy. The Third Edition, adorn'd with cuts, and a Table to the whole. Printed, and sold by Woodward, in Scalding-Alley against Stock-Market; and J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

Three Essays upon Preaching and Hearing; containing some few Reflections upon the two late celebrated Prefaces; but chiefly intented for those that frequent the Evening-Lecture and Charity-Sermons. By a Gentleman formerly of St. John's Colledge, Cambridge, price 6 d.

Religio Libertini; or, the Faith of a Converted Atheist, occasionally set forth by Mr. Richard Burridge , who was lately convicted of Blasphemy, before the Right Honourable Sir Thomas Parker , Lord chief Justice of England .

All printed for Sam. Briscoe , and sold by John Morphew near Stationers-hall .

THE Weekly Packet; or, a Collection of the News foreign and domestick for a whole Week; done in a concise and new Method, and also containing select Treatises in Learning and Trade, with the prizes Current of the most useful Commodities; having met with great Encouragement, is continu'd to be publish'd every Saturday Morning, and printed for H. Meere in Black-fryers, J. Baker in Pater-noster-row, A. Dod at the Peacock without Temple-bar, J. Graves in St. James's-Street, and E. Place at Furnivals-Inn-Gate in Holbourn: Price three half-pence. N. B. 'Tis done on a good Paper, and contriv'd so as to write on, and go as a single Letter by the Post.

