THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at TYBURN on Wednesday the 11th of May, 1715.

THese melancholy Papers, which had a happy Interruption from the Reprieve granted to those that receiv'd Sentence of Death at the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , in February last, now appear again to give an Account of such as were lately try'd, convicted, and condemn'd there, for Capital Crimes, on Wednesday the 27th, Thursday the 28th, Friday the 29th, and Saturday the 30th, of April last past, who were Eighteen in Number, viz. Twelve Men, and Six Women: One of which Women being found Pregnant, and Four others of them, with Five of the Men, having obtain'd the Mercy of a Reprieve (which I wish they may duly improve) the rest, being Eight, are now order'd for Execution.

While they were under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them brought up twice every day to the Chapel of Newgate , where I read Prayer, and the Word of GOD, which I explain'd to them; exhorting them to Faith and Repentance, and shewing them how they might obtain and exert those Graces, which were of the greatest Import to them, in order to their receiving the Pardon of their Sins, and the Salvation of their Souls.

On the Lord's Day, the 1st instant, I preach'd to them, and others there present, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Gen. 9. 6. Whose sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed; for in the Image of GOD made He Man.

In my Explanation of which Words, I shew'd,

I. The Punishment to be inflicted on the Murderer, which is Death, imply'd in this former Clause of the Text, Whoso sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed.

II. The Reason why the Murderer ought to be thus punish'd with Death, express'd in this latter Clause of the Text, For in the Image of GOD made He Man.

After I had enlarg'd upon these two Heads, I proceeded further to shew,

1. The Heinousness of this Crime.

2. The previous Sins that often prove the Occasion of it.

3. The dismal Circumstances attending it.

4. ult. The high Degree of Repentance the Person guilty of such an enormous Bloody Fact, should st up himself to, that he may pacify the Wath of GOD which is denounc'd and gone out against him, and have the Blood of Christ, that speaks better things than the Blood of Abel, plead for his Pardon, when he shall come to appear before the Dreadful Tribunal.

On the last Lord's Day, the 8th instant, I preach'd again to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon these Words of GOD, Ezek. 18. the latter part of the 4th Verse. The Soul that sinneth, it shall die.

From which I shew'd,

I. That every Man is to answer and suffer for his own, and not for others Faults, wherein he is not concern'd.

II. That the Death mention'd in the Text is opposite to the Life promis'd the Penitent in the 21st and following Verses of this Chapter. And,

III. ult. That both this Death and that Life are Certain and Eternal.

Which having made out by Proofs from Scripture, I then treated at large of the two vastly different States of the other World; shewing,

1. The severe Punishment of impenitent Sinners after this Life.

2. The happy Condition they shall be in then, who truly repent now.

To these Heads and Particulars I fully spoke, and then concluded all with suitable Exhortations to the Persons condemn'd; who seem'd to be some more, some less) attentive to what was then deliver'd, according to their respective Capacities of being affected therewith.

In my private Examinations of them, they severally gave me the Account of their past Lives and present Dispositions, as follows.

1. Samuel Awdry , condemn'd for privately stealing a Silver-hilted Sword from Mr. George Philips , as he was passing thro' Round-court in the Strand . He own'd he was guilty of that Fact, but of no other that could have touch'd his Life. He said, he was 20 Years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Giles in the Fields : That his Father, when alive, kept a publick House in that Parish, and employ'd him at home ; but when he grew pretty big, he went to Sea , and serv'd 5 Years on board the Windsor, and the Kingston, two Men of War, commanded by Capt. Trevor alternately; and that he was for the most part of that time at Port-Royal in the West-Indies , where he liv'd as well as ever he could wish to live, and might have been happy, if he had staid there. But having a mind to see his Native Country again, he return'd into England, and getting into ill Company, those Vices he had contracted before, soon encreas'd, which were many, as Swearing, Whoring, Drinking, prophaning the Lord's Day, and neglecting both private and publick Prayer, and other Acts of Devotion; and at last committed this Fact he is to die for; which he acknowledg'd his loose way of Living; his Gaming to a prodigious rate, as he did, even to the winning or losing of Ten pounds and upwards at a Night, had brought him to. He was Brother to Roderick Awdry , and John Awdry , who were executed at Tyburn , viz Roderick on the 28th of May, and John the 22d of December, 1714, for diverse Felonies and Robberies

by them severally committed, which they were both Condemn'd for. And tho' this Samuel Awdry had the Example of his two Brothers shameful Death before his Eyes, and even was an Evidence against the latter of them, viz. John Awdry , yet he would not take Warning by them, but follow'd the same wicked Way that had brought them to such a sad and untimely End.

2. John Stone , condemn'd for stealing a Cloth Suit and other Goods of Mr. Thomas Robinson , on the 23d of January, and a Silver Tankard out of the Dwelling-house of Mr. Henry Lowndes , on the 5th of February last. He own'd he was guilty of this Fact, and likewise of the other he was indicted for, and for want of sufficient Proof acquitted of, and that was his stealing a pair of Flaxen Sheets, and a Callico Quilt, out of the House of Mr. Peter Ayres , on the 27th of the said Month of February last. He said, he was about 21 Years of Age, born of good Parents in the Parish of Amberly near Arundel in Sussex : That about 4 Years ago he rob'd his Uncle's House in the Country, and took 300 l. in Money, and came up to London ; where he being (soon after) apprehended and committed to Newgate , was try'd, convicted, and burnt in the Hand at Justice-Hall in the Old-baily , for that Fact: That he was sent to the Bridewell in Clarkenwell , but broke out of it; and then committed another Felony, and was a second time burnt in the Hand, and order'd again to that Place for 2 Years, but staid there but one, for he broke out of it, as he had done before; and taking no Warning, nor improving these Corrections into Amendment, but returning to his old wicked Ways, he at last brought himself to this shameful and untimely End. He acknowledg'd he had been a wicked Liver, having committed Whoredom and Adultery, and been guilty of excessive Drinking, Swearing, prophaning the Lord's Day, &c. all which he said he heartily repented of, and beg'd, for Christ's sake, that GOD would pardon all his Sins and shew him Mercy.

3. Matthew Cornwall , condemn'd first for breaking the Dwelling-house of Mr. Thomas Biddle , on the 31st of March last, in the Night-time, and stealing thence 12 Pewter Dishes, and other Goods. 2dly, For breaking the House of Mr. Thomas Boyse , and stealing thence 112 Pound-weight of Tobacco, a pair of Scales, and a Weight. 3dly, For breaking the House of Mrs. Joan Harford , on the 9th of March last, and stealing thence 3 dozen of Plates, 12 Dishes, and other things. 4thly, For breaking the House of Mr. John Aaron , on the 23d of February last, and taking thence 10 Pewter Dishes, 40 Plates, and other Goods. He own'd he was guilty of all those Facts, and likewise of breaking and robbing the House of Mr. Jeremy Francis , on the 25th of March last; which he was try'd for, but for want of sufficient Evidence, acquitted of. He said, he was 23 Years of Age, born at Trubridge in Wiltshire : That he was bound Apprentice to a Weaver in the Country, but soon left him; and having listed himself a Soldier , serv'd 9 Years in the Army. I found him so very ignorant that he could not so much as read, nor say the Lord's Prayer. He confess'd, that his Sins were great and many, which bad Company had entic'd him to the Commission of; and, That he was sorry for what he had done, but could not now undo it, otherwise than by begging Pardon of GOD and Man, as he did.

4. Mary Ship , condemn'd for robbing and stripping Naked two Infants, upon the King's Highway, on the 18th of March last. She said, she was about 24 Years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Mary Magdalen Bermondsey , and of late Years liv'd in East-Smithfield : That she often help'd her Mother, who nurs'd Children , and at other times went to Washing and Scuoring ; by which Means she got a Livelihood, tho' a very poor one; and, That it was meer Poverty (but, as I observ'd her, it was more the want of Grace) that occasion'd her committing this cruel Fact. She was very ignorant, yet not insensible of her Fault, which she said she was very sorry, and beg'd Pardon for.

5. Francis Martin , alias Cushaw , (which latter he said was his right Name) condemn'd for stealing a Silk-Gown, and other Goods of John Hillersden , Esq ; and a Callico Gown and Petticoat of Mrs. Mary Philips ; on the 9th of April last. All which Things were in a Box in a Waggon, at the Swan Inn near Holbourn-bridge . He confess'd this Fact, and another Felony he had committed, and was burnt in the Hand for, above 2 Years ago, as it was prov'd against him in the Court; and therefore, having had the Benefit of the Statute then, it was deny'd him now; which made him at first uneasy, but at last he acknowleg'd he had Justice done him. He said, he was 30 Years of Age, born in Petticoat-lane , and of late Years liv'd in Barbican , and was a Button-maker by Trade. Upon my asking him, Why he was not, when burnt in the Hand, sent to Bridewell , he told me, They would not receive him there; and that was the reason he remain'd in Newgate till the 2 Years, he should have serv'd in Bridewell , were expir'd, which were so not very long since. I further asking him, How it came to pass that he did so soon return to his old wicked Way of Thieving, he reply'd, That when he committed this last Fact, he was in Drink. I gave him the best Advice I could, and endeavour'd to make him sensible and penitent of all his Sins; and I hope he was so.

6. John Panton-Carbonnel , condemn'd first for privately stealing two Guinea's and two Shillings in Silver, out of the Dwelling-House of Mrs. Mary Meakins , on the 24th of March last. Secondly, For stealing two Moi-d'ors, a double Pistole, two Half broad pieces of Gold, and some Silver, of Mr. John Tomkins , out of the House of Mr. Stephen Foster , on the 21st of the same Month of March last. Thirdly, For stealing twelve Moi-d'ors, from Mr. Samuel Cock , out of the House of Mr. Shales, on the 26th of February, 1711. Fourthly, For stealing Half a Guinea and Twenty Shillings in Silver, from Mr. Lawford, on the 30th of May, 1711. And, Fifthly, for stealing two Moi-d'ors, a Guinea, and a French Pistole, out of the House of Mr. Newnham, on the 4th of November last. He confess'd he was guilty of all these wicked Facts, and had committed several others of this nature, which he could not make any other Reparation for, than by submitting (as he did) patiently to this Shameful Death he was condemn'd to, and had justly deserv'd. He said, he was 52 Years of age, born at Nismes in Languedoc , but of late Years liv'd at Rotterdam , where he kept a Shop , and carried on a Trade; and, That he lately came into England to sell Hair for Perruques , he dealing much in that Commodity. He told me, That he had conceal'd his right Name, because he would not have it publickly known who he was, to the disgrace of his Family, part of which were here, part in Holland , and all of them good and honest laborious People. He could not speak English, but I discours'd him in French, and gave him the best ghostly Advice I could, which he seem'd readily to receive and comply with.

7. John Borde , condemn'd for being Confederate and actually concern'd with the said Carbonnel in the first four of these Felonies, and which he readily own'd. He said, he was 60 Years of age, born in the Neighbourhood of Carbonnel, in the said City of Nismes : That he had been many years out of his own Country, and for some time serv'd in the Army , but of late liv'd in London , where his Employment was to buy and sell Goods of any sort . He confess'd he had been an ill Liver, but would not give a more particular Account of what he had wickedly done; only he desir'd me to pray to God for his Soul, saying, He truly repented, and begg'd Pardon of GOD and Man for all his Sins and Offences.

8. Joseph Barbamino , condemn'd for assisting the said Carbonnel and Borde in the two first Facts before mention'd. He said, he was 63 years of age, born at Messina in Sicily : That he had been Nine years a Soldier in France , and afterward came to live at Amsterdam , where he kept a Milliner's Shop ; and there it was he became acquainted with Carbonnel: That he had not been long in England before they committed these Facts; which he own'd, and said, That he heartily repented of them, and of all he ever did amiss. He could not speak English, but understood French, in which Language we talk'd together, and in my Examination of him, and of the rest, I perceiv'd nothing in their outward Behaviour, but was becoming Persons under their sad Circumstances.

At the Place of Execution (to which they were carry'd from Newgate in three Carts this Day) I attended them for the last time; and after proper Admonitions to each of them, I pray'd and sung some Penitential Psalms with them, and made them rehearse the Apostles Creed. They all desir'd the Standers-by to take Warning by them, and pray for them; and When I had done with them, I took my Leave of them, recommending all their Souls to GOD. They had some time allotted them for their private Devotions, and then the Cart drew away, while they were each of them calling upon GOD for Mercy, Pardon, and Salvation, in these and the like Ejuculations: Lord, save me; Lord, have Mercy upon me; Lord Jesus, help me; Lord, receive my Spirit.

NB. Stone told me at the Place of Execution, That about Two Years ago he stole a Silver Tankard, which one David Wilford was Try'd, and like to have suffer'd for.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Persons, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Wednesday, May 11. 1715.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new sett of Cuts, adapted to several sizes of Common-prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam; engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate ; where may be had all sorts of Bibles, either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sizes; Common-prayers in Folio, for the use of Churches; Common-prayers in 8° & 12°. A New Edition of the Book of Homilies, in folio. All neatly bound. The Duty of Man's Works of all sizes; Duty of Man in Latin; Latin and Welsh Common-prayers; Tate and Brady's new Version of Psalms, with the new Supplement: Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament, Mr. Clutterbuck on the Liturgy; The Statutes at large, in 3 vol. Bp Beveridge's Sermons and private Thoughts, &c.

At the Sign of the Cheshire-Cheese, a Tinshop in Walbrook, near Stocks-Market,

LIveth a Gentlewoman, the Daughter of an eminent Physician, who practis'd in London upwards of 40 Years. She has an Ointment call'd the Royal Ointment, for the Gout, and Rheumatick Pains, and of great Ease and Comfort to both Sexes at Home and Abroad, as hath been experienc'd by many who have carry'd it with them into foreign Parts; and is therefore of excellent Use for all Travellers. Thus is the Cure compleated; as is well known to several of the Nobility and Gentry, who have experienc'd it, and are ready to testify the Truth of its wonderful Success. She hath also certain and infallible Cure for the Tooth-ach, without drawing, and so effectually, that the Pain will never return again; and not only so, but makes the Teeth as white as Ivory, and fastens loose Teeth to admiration. NB. Originally prepar'd by this Gentlewoman, and sold for her no where else.

Next Week will be publish'd the Second Edition of

THe Works of LUCIAN, translated from the Greek by Sir Henry Sheers , Walter Moyle , Esq; Cha. Blount , E sq ; Tom Brown , Mr. Tate, Mr. Laur. Eachard , Mr. Sellers, Dr. Drake, Mr. Vernon, Col. Blount, Andrew Baden , M. D. Mr. Hill, Capt. Spragg, Capt. Ayloffe, Christopher Eachard of Catherine-hall , Cambr . Mr. Savage and Mr. Jos. Washington , both of the Middle Temple , James Tyrrel , Esq ; Mr. Phillips, and several other Persons of Learning and Quality. The second Edition. To which are added, two Dialogues translated from a Greek MS. in the Vatican Library, and not extant in the Paris Edition nor Variorum; by the Right Honourable the late E. of Dorset and Middlesex; with Lucian's Life, a Discourse of his Writings, and a Character of some of the present Translators; by the late Famous John Dryden , Esq ; In 4 Volumes. Printed for R. Smith and G. Strahan at the Royal Exchange, J. Brown without Temple-bar, J. Graves in St. James-street, and J. Morphew near Stationers-hall; where may be had the History of the Lives of the Highwaymen, Foot-pads, House-breakers, &c. for 50 Years past, in 3 Pocket Volumes, by Capt . Alexander Smith , or any Volume single. Also the History of the Rise and Growth of Schism; with the Lives of False Prophets, viz. Papists, Anabaptists, Quakers, Presbyterians, Independants, &c. Pr. 1 s. 6 d. The History of the Lutheran Church, by a Gentleman-Commoner of Oxon. And the History of the Lutheran Liturgy, by the same. Price 6 d. each.

Books lately printed for A. Bell at the Cross-Keys and Bible in Cornhill, and J. Baker in Pater-noster-row.

THE Life of Queen ANNE; in which is all Her Speeches, Messages, Letters, &c. The Lives of the Duke of Marlborough, and Prince Eugene of Savoy; with both their Effigies, price 4 s. The Life of Muley Ismael , present Emperor of Morocco ; in which is an Account of his barbarous Usage of the Christian Slaves, and of his own Children and Subjects, and of having slain above 30000 with his own Hands, since his Accession to the Throne, price 2 s. 6 d. The History of Treaties, both of Peace and Trade, from the Treaty of Munster to this Time, price 3 s. 6 d.

This Day is publish'd by R. Burleigh in Amen-corner.

THe History of Eclipses, and the dreadful Effects that follow'd them, from the Birth of Christ to this present Time. By J. Parker, late of Trinity-College in Cambridge, Price 3 d. Where may be had the Prospect of Dooms-day, price 3 d. The Art of Preaching-according to the Times; by W. Edwards, Chaplain to the Duke of Ormond, price 4 d. A New Voyage to the Island of Fools, representing the Policy, Government, and present State of the Stultinians, by the Author of the Black-bird's Song, price 1 s. The comical Adventures of Gamesters and Sharpers, being the Art of Gaming explain'd; pr. 2 s. The Prince's Cabala; or Mysteries of State; pr. 2 s. And to morrow will be publisht the 2d Edition of War or Peace, being an Essay on the Comforts of the one, and the Plagues of the other; by W. Edwards, Chaplain to the Duke of Ormond, price 3 d.

In few Days will be printed, in a neat Pocket Volume,

The History of the Foolish and Wicked, and the Wise and Good Kings of Israel and Judah; first printed by Order of the House of Commons, in the Years 1641 & 1642, and now Reprinted for R. Burleigh in Amen-corner.

On Saturday next will be publish'd the 2d Edition, enlarg'd and corrected, of the Second Volume of Posthumous Works of Mr. Samuel Butler , Author of Hudibras. Written in the Time of the Grand Rebellion, and the beginning of the Restauration, Being a Collection of Satyrs, Speeches, and Reflections upon those Times, with a Key to the 2d and 3d parts of Hudibras, by Sir Roger L'Estrange . Printed for Sam. B, where may be had the 3d Edition of the First Volume; both printed in small Pocket Volumes.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall.

