THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at TYBURN, on Friday the 8th of June, 1716.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old baily, on Thursday the 17th, Friday the 18th, and Saturday the 19th of May, 1716, Ten Persons, viz Eight Men and Two Women, that were found Guilty of several Capital Crimes, did accordingly receive Sentence of Death: But One of the Women being reported to be Pregnant, and Three of the Men, having obtain'd HIS MAJESTY'S Gracious Reprieve (which I hope they will take care duly to improve) Five Men and One Woman are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this melancholy state of Condemnation, I constantly visited them, sometimes in their Dungeon, but oftner in the Chapel of Newgate, where I had them to attend twice every Day at Prayer and the Reading of the Word of GOD, which I expounded to them; instructing them (chiefly) in the most necessary Points of Faith and Repentance: And,

On the Lord's Day the 20th of May last, being the Day of Pentecost, I preach'd to them and others then present (both in the Morning and Afternoon) upon the Words of Our Blessed Saviour, Joh. 15. 26. But when the Comforter (whom will send unto you from the Father) even the Spirit of proceedeth from the Father, He will testify of me.

From which Words, first explain'd at large with their Context, and illustrated by parallel Places, I then shew'd, That in them these Two great Points chiefly are observable, viz.

I. A Discovery (in general) of the whole Sacred Trinity; For in that CHRIST says, I will send the Spirit from the Father, the Three Divine Persons are here mention'd.

II. A Description (in particular) of the Holy Spirit, of whom it is said in this Place,

1. That He is the Comforter.

2. That He will come.

3. That He shall be Sent, viz.{from the Father. by the Son. to the Apostles & their Followers.

4. That He is the Spirit of Truth.

5. That He proceeds from the Father.

6. ult. That He gives his Testimony of the Son.

Price 3 Half-pence.

To each of these Heads and Particulars having amply spoken and especially observ'd, That He, who is here said to be sent, is in no wise Inferior to, but in all respects Co-equal and Co-eternal with Him, by whom and from whom He is sent; I then further shew'd, That this Mystery of the Sacred Trinity is (in a very great measure) vail'd from us: That though much has been, and much more might still be said on it, yet we must in the conclusion acknowledg our selves insufficient for these Things: That this high Point is unsearchable and incomprehensible by us, to perfection, while we are on this side of the Grave; and therefore should rather admire it with all humility of Heart and Soul, than be too curious in our Search and Enquiry into it: That our Incapacity of comprehending it, is no Argument for our Disbelief of it, since we have it reveal'd both in the Text and other Places of the Word of GOD, as has been abundantly prov'd; and, That it is the great Object of our Faith, which ought to have a mighty influence upon our Lives, so as to engage us entirely to love, fear, honour, serve, and adore that GOD, who is so Good, so Great, so Excellent, and so far beyond all our Thoughts and Imaginations: And when we have been so unhappy as to offend and provoke by our Sins that most Glorious BEING, who is able both to save and to destroy, we should without delay seek to pacify Him by earnest Prayers, Repentance, and Amendment of Life; sincerely purposing and constantly endeavouring to deny all Ungodliness and Worldly Lusts, and live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present World, - &c. as the Apostle exhorts, Tit. 2. 12.

This was some part of the Doctrine I then preach'd to my Auditory, concluding with particular Exhortations suitable to the Circumstances of the Condemn'd Persons: To whom,

On Trinity-Sunday, the 27th of May, I preach'd again, both in the Morning and Afternoon; and for the sake of Three of them that were Murderers, I chose to discourse upon this Text, Mat. 19. part of the 18th Verse, Thou shalt do no Murder.

After a general Explanation and Illustration of these Words, with their Context, I shew'd in particular,

I. The heinous Nature of Murder.

II. The severe Punishment it deserves, which in this World is irremissible, as the Offence is irreparable.

III. and lastly, The high degree of Repentance, which the Murderer (if ever he desires to find Mercy with God) ought to excite and stir up himself to; bitterly lamenting his woful Condition, and crying out with David, in the 51st Psalm, at the 14th Verse, Deliver me from Blood guiltiness, O God!

On Tuesday the 29th of May last, being the Thanksgiving-day for the Restauration of K. CHARLES II. and the ROYAL FAMILY, I preach'd to them on these Words (part of the Epistle for that Day) 1 Pet. 11.17. Fear GOD. Honour the King.

From which I shew'd,

I. That by the Fear of GOD is meant the Performance of all Religious Duties, and faithful Service and Obedience to GOD, even the constant doing of all that He commands, and a careful avoiding of whatsoever He forbids.

II. That by the Honour here injoin'd to be paid to the King, is to be understood the faithful Discharge of all due Submission and Obedience to the Supream Authority and Subordinate Magistrates, or Ministers, whether in Church or State, whom the Providence of GOD has set over Men, for the Punishment [and Restraint] of Evil-doers, and for the Praise [Countenance and Protection] of them that do well; as the Apostle teaches, 1 Pet. 2. 14.

III. That our Submission and Obedience to Persons in Authority must be in the Fear of GOD, which is the only sure Foundation of that Honour; for they that fear GOD most, honour Kings best.

IV. ult. That those who have not the Fear of GOD before their Eyes, and consequently are apt to fall into Disobedience, and the breach of all Rules and good Government, must be accounted no other than Rebellious Persons, who by their wilful commission either of Murder, Theft, or any other Crime, do presume to transgress those Human Laws, which are conformable, or (at least) not repugnant to the Laws of GOD.

And on the last Lord's Day, the 3d instant, I preach'd to them again (both in the Morning and Afternoon) upon part of the Gospel for that Day, viz. Luke 16. 23, 24. And in Hell he lift up his Eyes, being in Torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his Bosom: And he cry'd, and said, Father Abraham have Mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his Finger in Water, and cool my Tongue; for I am tormented in this Flame.

From which Words, first explain'd in general, with their Context (so far as it concerns CHRIST's Parable of Dives and Lazarus) I then shew'd in particular,

I. That the Soul is capable of an Existence separate from the Body.

II. That when the Souls of Good Men (and they are accounted such who truly repent) depart out of their Bodies they are immediately admitted into an unchangeable State of everlasting Blessedness.

III. That the Souls of Wicked Men and Impenitent Sinners do, at the departure out of their Bodies, presently enter upon an eternal State of Misery.

On these Points I discours'd, and for a further illustration of them, enlarg'd upon these Particulars:

1. The dreadful Torments of the Damned in Hell, who (like the Richman in the Text) cannot obtain so much as a Drop of Water to cool their burning Thirst.

2. The Happiness of the Blessed in Heaven, who (after the Miseries of this Life are over) enjoy perpetual Rest and Felicity in the Bosom of GOD their Heavenly Father.

3. ult. The Certainty and Eternity of both these, viz. the Punishment of the Wicked, and the Reward of the Righteous, i. e. such as are truly Penitent.

And lastly, on Thursday the 7th instant (which was Yesterday) being a Day of publick Thanksgiving for the late signal Victory obtain'd over the Rebels, I preach'd to the Condemn'd, and others there present, upon Psal. 126. 3. The Lord has done great Things for us, whereof we are glad.

From which Words, first explain'd in gene, and an Account given of the Occasion and Author of them, I shew'd in particular these two Things chiefly:

I. The indispensable Duty we lie under of paying our unfeigned Thanks and Acknowledgment to GOD, for the great Things which He has done for us.

II. What will secure, confirm, and 'stablish us in the happy Enjoyment of the Blessings we have already receiv'd, and will make us capable of receiving more, viz. our being spiritually glad, and rejoicing in God, with a just sense of our Obligation to Him, and sincere Love for Him, because of his great Goodness and transcendent Mercy to us.

In my speaking (as I did severally) to those two Points, I made it appear; That, As our Prosperity, all our Successes, our Preservation, and all other Blessings we enjoy, are the gratuitous and free Gifts of GOD; So we ought to return our hearty Praises to Him for them, by setting forth his Honour and Glory, in the constant Profession and Defence of his True Religion and Virtue, through the whole Course of a Holy Life and Conversation: And we ought likewise continually to pray, That by his good Providence over his Anointed (our Most Gracious Sovereign Lord, King George) his Royal Family, and these Nations, They, and all of us, may be always preserv'd and defended both from the secret treacherous Designs, and from the open violent Assaults of our Enemies, whose base and unjust Attempts and barbarous and bloody Practices have now fully discover'd, That their Endeavours were (and I am afraid still are) to bring this Church and State under the Spiritual and Temporal Yoke of Romish Slavery, Oppression, Tyranny, and Arbitrary Power, with all other the many Evils and Calamities resulting therefrom: So that, tho' perhaps the pretended will not, yet the true Protestants, and all Men of Impartiality and unbyass'd Reason may clearly see, That they who have such an Ill-will at our Sion, drive and aim at nothing less than the forcing us to embrace Error, or to become Martyrs .

Having largely and distinctly discours'd upon the Heads and Particulars of all these Sermons, I concluded each of them to the Condemn'd as I thought suitable to their exhorting them to Faith and Repentance, and those Graces were, and how they might be in this World, in order to their happy their Sins, and the Eternal Salvation of their Souls in the World to come.

In my private Discourses with, and Examination of them, they gave me the following Accounts of themselves, viz.

1. William White , condemn'd for these Facts, viz. 1st, For assaulting Mr. John Knapp , and taking from him a Hat and Peruke; as also for the Murther of Mrs. Mary Knapp , his Mother, on the 31st of March last. 2dly, For assaulting on the King's Highway, Mr. John Gough , and robbing him of a brown Gelding, a Fustian Frock, a pair of Silver Buttons, and other Goods. 3dly, For breaking open the House of Mr. George Barclay , and stealing thence four Gold Rings, four Guinea's, six Handkerchiefs, a Sattin Gown, and several other Goods of great Value, on the 1st of April last. He said, he was 34 Years of Age born in London , and had serv'd on board several Men of War , about ten Years under the late Reign. He confess'd the several Facts he was convicted of, and justly condemn'd for; but would not discover any other he had been concern'd in, saying, it were to a Purpose, for it would be of no Use to any-body; and besides that, he cou'd give no exact Account of them. I mention'd to him (as I was desir'd) several Robberies, and some Murthers, that of late have been committed, and not yet discover'd; and I ask'd him particularly, whether he knew any thing of the breaking Sir Henry Hicks 's Coach-house at Low-Layton in Essex and taking some Coach-glasses thence; and his Answer was, That himself was not (nor knew any one that was) concern'd in any of those Facts.

2. John Chapman , alias Edward Darvell , (the latter being his right Night) condemn'd with the above-mention'd William White , for the Murther of Mrs. Knapp, and Robbing her Son; and likewise for the Robbery committed on Mr. Gough. He said, he was 32 Years of Age, born at Layton-stone in Essex : That he had serv'd his Apprentiship with a Gardiner , and afterwards been alternately entertain'd in that Capacity by two Gentlemen there. He confess'd his Guilt of the several Facts he stood condemn'd for; and being ask'd, whether he was concern'd in (or knew any thing of) a late Robbery committed in the Coach-house of Sir Henry Hicks ; he positively deny'd his knowing any thing of that Matter; saying, He was not in the least concern'd in it, nor with them that were; and, That he was offer'd 20 l. to take that Fact upon himself, but refus'd it. I would have had him ingenuously confess all the Robberies he had for these five or six Years past been engag'd in, but he declin'd giving me and the World this Satisfaction.

3. Thomas Thurland , ( otherwise Thorland ) condemn'd with the aforesaid White and Chapman, for the Murther of Mrs. Knapp, and Robbing of her Son; and in like manner for Robbing Mr. Gough, near Holloway . He said, he was 30 Years of Age, born at Hartford , a Millener by Trade, and for some time kept a Shop at Colchester in Essex . He confess'd the several Facts he was convicted of; and also own'd himself guilty of some others, which were not known, nor would he tell what they were, alledging. That it wou'd signify nothing to any Man, did he, or could he, make a full and perfect Discovery of them. I asking him, (as I did the Two 'foregoing) Whether he knew any thing of Sir Henry Hicks 's Coach-house being broke open and robb'd; his Answer was, He knew nothing at all of the Matter, protesting his being absolutely innocent of that Fact as the two others had done for their part. But he cou'd not deny, he had once (i. e. on the 1st of October, 1714) broke open the Warehouse of Mr. Richard Sharpless , and stln thence 132 Yards of Russell, and 400 Yards of a Stuff call'd Tmarine, for which Fact he receiv'd Sentence of Death on the 13th of December following, and afterwards obtain'd a Pardon, which he pleaded at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Saturday the 6th of August last; but instead of performing the Condition of that Pardon, which was, That he should (within six Months) transport himself out of the King's Dominions in Europe, he return'd to his Evil Way, nay, he did worse than before; for (by his own Confession) he was concern'd in the Murther of Mrs. Knapp, as well as in the Robberies he now stood condemn'd for.

Being desir'd particularly to ask these three Malefactors, White, Chapman, and Thurland, Whether they used the Broken Trooper Alehouse in High-Holbourn; and, Whether any of the House knew what they were, and what Employment they follow'd; I put these Questions to them severally, which they resolv'd in the Negative saying, They did not frequent that House, nor were known, either to the Master of it, or any that belong'd to it. But when I would further ask them some other Questions about several Robberies they were suspected of, they would not give me any manner of Answer, one way or other; only they disown'd their being guilty of any Murther, saving this they were now to suffer for.

4. William Hankinson ( or Hankerson ) condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mr. Richard Lisle (to whom he had been a Servant ) and stealing thence 13 Guineas, several other Pieces of Gold, 25 l. in Money, 11 Gold-Rings, several Gallons of Brandy, Clove-Water, Cinnamon-Water, and other Goods, on the 27th & 30th days of April last. He said, he was 22 years of age, born at Bowden in Cheshire , and had liv'd for some time in London . He confess'd, That he was justly coudemn'd, but said these were his first Facts. He also seem'd to be very sensible of his Offences, for which he ask'd Pardon both of GOD and them he had wrong'd.

5. Samuel Ellis , condemn'd for picking Mr. John Salt 's Pocket of a Snuff-box value 10 s. on the 14th of May last. He said, he was 19 or 20 years of age, born in Black-Friers , London : That he was bound Apprentice to a Watchmaker living in that Place, from whom he ran away when he had not been above a Twelvemonth with him: That he becoming then very loose, and falling into the Company of some wicked young Men (now at Sea) he soon improv'd those vicious Inclinations that were already in him, into a higher degree of Wickedness, being addicted to Laziness, Lewdness, Gaming, Swearing, Thieving, and the like: That he had led this pernicious Course of Life for these two Years past; and had once been whipt for a small Felony. He confess'd the Fact he was now condemn'd for, and wish'd all young Men would take Warning by him.

6. Priscilla Spencer , alias Long , condemn'd for breaking open the House of the Reverend Dr. Harris, and stealing thence a Gown and Cassock, with a Hat and a Wig, on the 5th of May last. She said, she was about 50 years of age, born at Stafford , and had liv'd many of those Years in London ; where for the most part she had been a Servant (as a Landress ) in several good and honourable Families: That not being contented with her Service, and getting acquaintance with Loose People, she easily learn'd those wicked Practices of Thieving and Shop-lifting, which generally end in the Destruction of such as follow them. She confess'd, That she was burnt in the Cheek for a Felony many Years ago; but that Punishment was so far from bringing her into any Reformation, that on the contrary it harden'd her more; and so she went on in her unlawful Ways till she was overtaken by the Hand of Justice, which inflicted this shameful Death on her. She own'd her Guilt of the Fact she stood condemn'd for, and begg'd Pardon of GOD and Man for this and all other the Evil Things she had committed in the long Course of a wicked Life.

All these Criminals were very unwilling to discover any Facts they had been concern'd in, or had any Knowledge of. And what made them so, I found was the Hope, which (tho' contrary to all Reason and Probability) they entertain'd of being Repriev'd; their long Continuance under this Condemnation having rais'd in them such an Expectation of Life, that even when the Death-Warrant was come, they could hardly believe they were to die, nor be perswaded to any thing that was sit for them to do for the clearing of their Consciences, and duly preparing themselves for another World.

At the Place of Execution, to which they were carry'd from Newgate in Two Carts this Day, I attended them for the last time; and after proper Exhortations to, Prayers for, Singing of Penitential Psalms, and rehearsing the Apostles Creed with, Them, I left them to GOD's Mercy, which they all implor'd; desiring also the Spectators to pray for them, and wishing, That all that saw them, or heard of them, might take Warning by their untimely Death, and by avoiding their Sins, prevent their own coming to the like shameful End. Which having said, they call'd upon GOD for Mercy in their private Prayers, for which they had some time allotted them: And then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, and so dy'd.

Whereas some Papers have lately been cry'd about the Streets, under my Name, concerning Henry Oxburgh , Esq ; (commonly call'd, Colonel Oxburgh) and Mr. Richard Gascoigne , who were Executed at Tyburn for High Treason, viz. the former on Monday the 14th, and the latter on Friday the 25th of May last; These are to satisfy the World, That I publish'd no such Papers, nor gave any Account of them in Print: And what I can now say of those Gentlemen, is, That they declar'd they were born in the Romish Religion , and therein dy'd. Therefore they did not, nor were likely to make any Confession to me, or own their Fact to be a Crime.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Malefactors, by me

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Friday, June 8. 1716.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Lately Publish'd, in a Pocket Volume, and Elzevir Letter,

DRunken Barnaby's four Journeys to the North of England; in Latin and English Verse. Wittily and merrily (tho' near 100 Years ago) compos'd; found among some old musty Books, that had a long time lain by in a Corner and now at last made publick. To which is added Bessy Bell.

Hiest quem quaris, ille quem requiris,

Toto not us in Obe Brita. Hor.

Barnabas Ebris.

Sold by S. Illidge under Searle's Gate, Lincoins. Inn New-square; also by S. Ballard in Little-Britain, J. Graves in St. James-street, and J.Walthoe against the Royal Exchange.

Next the Haunch of Venison, near the Cock Alehouse, the lower-end of Bow-lane in Cheapside, liveth a Gentlewoman (the Daughter of an eminent Physician) who has that incomparable Secret, call'd,

THe Royal Ointment for the Gout and so much approv'd of by both Sexes of the Nobility and Gentry for its wonderful Effects, as can be well attested. By applying it to the Parts griev'd the Cause is remov'd, and present Ease given in the most exquisite Pains, altho' reduced to Crutches. Also a certain, safe, and infallible Cure for the Tooth-ach without drawing, and so effectually that the Pain will never return again. It also fastens loose ones to admiration, and preserves 'em from rotting or decaying. Also a Powder that makes the Teeth as White as Ivory. She hath an excellent Secret to prevent Hair from falling, causing it to grow where-ever is wanting; and red Hair to a delicate light or dark brown, and 'twill never change. She shapes the Eyebrows, making, them very beautiful, and takes away all superstuous Hair from the Face. Ladies may be furnish'd with Pomat, cold Creams, &c.

London Printed, and Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall.

