THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTOR, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 26th of this Instant JULY, 1732.

BEING THE SIXTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. FRANCIS CHILD , Esq ;

Number VI. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXII.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. FRANCIS CHILD , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Hon. my Lord Chief Baron Reynolds, the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn; the Hon. Mr. Justice Fortescue; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of the Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, being the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th of July, 1732; in the Sixth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Nine Men, viz. John Gillets , John Gladman , Daniel Tipping , Robert Ellement , John Robins , Valentine Robins , Henry Barret , Joseph Charley , and Richard Dangerfield , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Crimes, and receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly.

When under Sentence, they were instructed in those Principles of natural Religion, which it is necessary for every one to know; that there is one God, the Sovereign Supream, infinite Being, from Eternity to the endless Ages of Eternity, the same to Day, Yesterday and forever; who made and created all Things, by the Word of his Power, and who preserves the Same in their Being; in whom alone it is, that we live, move and

have our Being; from whom we receive all the Blessings of this Life; and in whom are concenter'd all our hopes, of obtaining eternal Life in a future State. And as Nature teaches us, that there is a God who creates and preserves every Thing, so by Revelation we have a sure and infallible Discovery, that at first God made Man upright, after his own Image, in knowledge, righteousness and true holiness, but that he hath found out many inventions, having fall'n from this primitive Estate of Integrity and Perfection, into a Labyrinth of Sin and Misery, and by this fall having render'd himself obnoxious to the divine Wrath and Vengeance, both in this Life and that which is to come. Next I show'd them, that when we were reduc'd to this Misery, by our Apostacy from God, and from the obedience of his Laws, yet then was his Time of Love; then, when there was no Eye to pity us, nor no Hand to help us, was he pleas'd to say unto us, Live; then did he give us the Promise of the blessed Seed of the Woman, who should bruise the Head of the Serpent, i. e. the promise of Christ Jesus, who is descended of the Woman, viz. the blessed Virgin Mary, in an extraordinary Manner, without an earthly Father, and who being the long expected, and at last the actually exhibited Messias, should destroy the Works of the Devil, and by his Death and Sufferings, should gloriously Triumph over Hell, Death and the Grave, and who should thus lead Captivity Captive, and bestow Gifts upon me, and purchase a right unto eternal Life, for all them who believe in him.

Having shewn unto them their lost Estate by Nature, and the Remedy provided by Grace, in and through our Lord Jesus Christ, I exhorted them to a firm and stedfast Faith in God, and in Christ the Son of God and only Saviour of Sinners, according to that Text and saying of our blessed Saviour. And this is Life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. St. John 17, 3. and that other saying of the Apostle, But without Faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God, must believe that he is, and that he is a Rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Heb. xi. 6. I endeavour'd to persuade them by the Terrours of the Lord, to fly from the Wrath to come; that if the infinite Rewards prepar'd for them who love God, did not pre

vail, they might consider, what a terrible Thing it is to fall into the Hands of the living God, and to be to all eternity expos'd to the lash of the divine Wrath, and that fiery Indignation which shall devour the Adversary; and at last to have that severe Sentence, at the Day of Judgment, pronounc'd against them, by our Saviour Christ, who by God the Father is appointed to be the Sovereign Judge of all Men: Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting Fire, prepared for the Devil and his Angels, St. Matth. xxv. 41.

I expos'd to them the great Evil of Theft and Robbery, from the Causes and the dreadful Effects and Consequences of it. This Sin proceeds from Covetousness, and the inordinate Love one bears to the World, which is inconsistent with the love of God, For, we cannot love God and Mammon, Matth. vi. 24. Another Cause of it is Idleness, not applying ourselves to an industrious and virtuous Course of Life, but sitting down unactive and doing nothing, whereas the Apostle gave it in command, that if one would not work, he ought not to eat. For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat. 2 Thess. iii. 10. And this produceth another Cause still more dangerous, which is luxury and intemperance: For the Satisfying of which vicious Appetites, they stopt not at the Commission of the most notorious Crimes, Murder, Robbery, Theft and many other extravagancies, which had brought so much shame and sorrow upon them; and which would bring much more terrible Judgments upon them, the eternal Wrath nd Vengance of the Almighty, if not prevented by a speedy Repentance and thorough Reformation: For it's obvious, that they who give themselves up to such an irregular Course of Life, making Shipwrack of Faith and a good Conscience, and refusing to retain the knowledge of God in their Minds; therefore God gives them up to a reprobate Sense, he leaves them to themselves, and they being thus abandon'd, are ready to commit all uncleaness with greediness, and permitted to fall into those Sins, which are punishable by temporal Death in this World, and if not repented of, with eternal Death in the next Life.

For preventing which Misery coming upon their Souls, I seriously exhorted them to believe in Jesus

Christ, as the Son of God and only Saviour of Mankind, since there is no other Name given under Heaven among Men, whereby we must be saved, but the Name of Jesus, and him crucified, Then I desir'd them to repent of all their Sins, so as to forsake, to hate and abhor themselves in Dust and Ashes because of them; and to resolve by the Grace of God, if they had done iniquity and Sin, to do so no more.

For the obtaining of which and all other saving Graces, I advis'd them to implore of God the Grace and Assistance of his holy Spirit, without whose aid they could do nothing aright, for it is God who worketh in us both to will and do of his good Pleasure.

I instructed them also in the Nature of the christian Sacraments, how they were early dedicated to the Service of God in Baptism, and that they having been so notoriously Guilty of the Breach of their baptismal Vows, and being now to leave this World, that it was their Duty to renew those sacred Obligations, by partaking in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, who commands us, to do this in remembrance of him, in Commemoration of all he hath done and suffered for us, and as a Pledge of that everlasting Love he bears us.

While these and many other Exhortations were given, they attended in Chappel, and such as could read made regular Responses. They were quiet and made no Disturbance, but seemed too hard hearted, and to have little of that deep Concern upon their Spirits, becoming People in their most deplorable Circumstances. Some of them spoke, smil'd or laugh'd to one another at times; I exhorted them to gravity and sincerity, and put them in mind, that it was not Man but God they had to do with, and that upon the Improvement or Misimprovement of their very short time, depended their eternal Felicity or Misery in a future State. Joseph Charley always attended in Chappel, although he turned very Sick; he was a Quaker in Profession, spoke nothing, show'd no outward complyance with the Worship, but that sometimes he stood, and would not alter in his way of thinking. Gladman did not come to Chappel, having been all the time deadly Sick: When I visited him in the Cell, and he was in his Senses, out of which he was a good part of the time, he declared himself very penitent, and desirous of Prayers and Exhortations. Ellement was Sick all the time he was under Sentence, but came to Chappel the first eight Days, although in the

greatest Distress, and when he got clean Linnen, which he was in much need of, being miserably poor and naked, after he heard that the dead Warrant was come out against him, he came to Chappel, being supported by others, both in his coming up and down Stairs: He always behaved very decently, both in publick and private, and appeared penitent. One of the 5, on Friday the 21st Instant, as his Mother, a grave old Woman, pray'd him for God's Sake to take care, repent and amend his evil Ways, spoke roughly and undecently, bid her be quiet, and had no Patience to hear her. For this unchristian Carriage and Disrespect, I reproved him sharply, and desired him to think seriously upon his miserable State, and to make his Peace with God, for the many crying Sins of his Life.

Upon Friday, the 21st of this instant July, 1732, Report was made to her Majesty in Council, of these Nine Malefactors lying in Newgate under Sentence of Death: When John Gladman of Ickenham , for stealing a black Gelding, value 10 l. the Goods of William Osmond , May 13th; John Gillet alias Mouth , for assaulting John Maxey , on the High-way in the Parish of St. Dion'ss back-Church , putting him in fear, and taking from him a Hat, valued 8 Shillings, and a Wig valued 2 s. 6 d. April 7th.

John Robins , Valentine Robins , (Brothers) and Henry Barret , of St. Bride's , for stealing 150 Brasspatterns, value 30 l. and a Bell Metal Mortar, value 3 Shillings 6 Pence, the Goods of Francis Skèlthorn in his House, June 30th; for which they were found Guilty, to the Value of 39 Shillings each; the said John and Valentine Robins , Henry Barret s, Joseph Charley , and Richard Dangerfield of Pancras , for assaulting Samuel Atkins in a Field near the High-way, putting him in fear, and taking from him a Hat value 4 Shillings and 3 Shillings in Money, July 2d; receiv'd her Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve: The remaining two, viz. Daniel Tipping and Robert Element were ordered for Execution.

After the Dead Warrant came out, Daniel Tipping appeared much more concern'd than formerly, and in Evidence thereof, shed plenty of Tears and wept abundantly; but its a difficult matter to judge justly upon such Grief and Sorrow, whether it be the Effect of Terrour and Consternation, upon the View of a present violent and inevitable Death; or of any real sorrow for Sin and true Repentance. Element always behaved well and as became a Penitent, but

was mightily oppressed with Sickness and Poverty.

N. B. The Warrant of respiting Tipping's Execution not coming down till Tuesday the 25th Instant, at ten at Night (and then to him unexpectedly) he had given the following Account of his Life and Conversation.

Daniel Tipping was indicted for assaulting (with James Plumridge not yet taken) Joshua Lumm in a Field near the High-way, in the Parish of Stepney , putting him in fear, and taking from him a Cloth Coat value 3 Pound, a Hat value 10 Shillings, a Wig value 40 Shillings, a Silk Handkerchief, and 19 Shillings in Money, on Sunday June 18th, near 11 at Night.

Daniel Tipping 22 Years of Age, of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, in reading, writing, and Accompts, to fit him for Business; and had him instructed in the Principles of Christianity: When of Age, he was put out Apprentice to a Poulterer in Newgate-market , and served 	 his time with honesty and the Approbation of his Master, as he gave in Evidence when his Trial, and a great many others, who appeared reputable Persons, gave him an good Character for his Honesty and Diligence in Business. When out of his Time, he liv'd with his Mother, and his Fatherin-law did not let him want Money to buy Goods, for carrying on his Trade, which he did by taking the Fowls and selling them to the Poulterers who kept Stalls or Shops; so that he was no way necessitated to take himself to any unlawful Courses, for want of Bread, having his Mother's House to go too, and his going astray having been the great Grief of his Parents, especially of his ancient Mother, who upon his Misfortunes is sunk with Vexation and Sorrow. He said, that he never was exstremely wicked, as most of those unfortunate Wretches commonly are, and his Father in law gave him a very good Character, and said, that he trusted him with every thing, and never found any loss or harm by him, as did also his late Master, with whom he serv'd his Time, both of whom and others had trusted him with Hundreds of Pounds, and never entertain'd the least Suspicion of his being dishonest. He denied the Fact of which he was convicted, and said, that he never stole, thiev'd,

broke Houses, nor robbed on the High Way in his Life.

The Account he gave of his Accusation and Apprehension was to this purpose. He had been a little acquainted with the Evidence, only some short time before he was taken up, and that a Day or two after Mr. Lumm was robb'd, as he was coming up Snowhill , meeting with Peter Buck going towards the other End of the Town, he detained him a little in the Street in chat, and about one thing or other; Buck proposed to him to go along with him to Drury-Lane to a Sister of his, who would entertain them; he told him he had no Money, and begg'd to be excus'd; Buck said, though both of them wanted Money it was no matter, for his Sister would treat them. Being over-persuaded he went along with him, and Buck's Sister treated them with' Meat and Drink; and then they sat up playing at Cards, and continued drinking till Morning, when the Sister persuaded Tipping to go to Bed with her Brother, since it was an unseasonable time for going home to his Mother's House: Accordingly he staid that Night with the Evidence Buck, and in the Morning rising and intending to go away, Buck and his Sister persuaded him to stay and Breakfast with them; He complyed with their Request, and after Breakfast, staying to drink a Bottle of Ale; in the mean time Buck pretended to go out and get his Wig powdered, but his true Design was to go before a Justice, and swear an Information against Tipping and others; Tipping upon Buck's absence was impatient, but the Sister gave him abundance of fair Words, and enticed him to stay, till in a little while he found that Buck had informed against him, and that he was only decoy'd into the Snare by him and his Sister.

This Account he gave, and said, that Buck and his Sister had contrieved such a Plot against him, because of his Acquaintance with Buck, who had it in his power to swear his Life away, as being a good for nothing Fellow, and a Man of a bad Character. Some part of his Narrative agrees with Buck's Evidence; which I hope what he said was true; and told him that it was not Man, but God he had to deal with, and therefore I bid him take special care of what he said upon that Subject, since by a genuine Confession he glorified God, and did Ju

stice to Man, by an open Acknowledgment of his Sins. I pressed upon him to confess his Sins from the Example of the Saints in the Old Testament; and from the express Command of Christ himself in the new Testament, who commands us to confess our Sins to the Church, that we may obtain a regular Absolution; and the Apostle St. James appoints us to confess our Faults one to another, in Confirmation of Christ's Precept. I told him also, that it was the Practice of the Church in all Ages, to make Confession of Sins; especially in cases of Cápital Offences, such as he was convicted of. I expos'd to him the Danger of speaking Lies and telling untruths, which was a mocking of God, who is the Trier of the Hearts, and Searcher of the Reins of the Children of Men; and I show'd him, that such a Method would aggravate his Condemnation in the great Day of the Lord, as being an Addition of Sin to Sin, and Iniquity unto Transgression.

He behaved very decently in Chappel, made regular Responses, and complied with the Worship, and for the most part he was attentive to Exhortations.

N. B. It is to hoped, that her Majesty's great Mercy and Clemency, will be an effectual Warning to this unhappy young Man, and incline him to lead a Life of Virtue and Sobriety, and become a useful Subject to the merciful Fountain, to which the Continuance of his Being is owing.

Robert Element of Shadwell , was indicted for breaking and entring the House of Anne Coniers and stealing a Riding-hood, a Looking glass, a Shift, a Shirt, three Caps, four Towels, and a Pillow; the Goods of Anne Coniers ,

two Shirts and five Stocks; the Goods of James Rule , two Shifts, three Aprons, four Caps, two Suits of Pinners, a Silk-girdle, and Silverbuckle, and three Handkerchiefs; the Goods of John Cox , April 7th, in the Night.

Robert Element was a second time indicted, for stealing a Druggit-coat, a Pair of Breeches, a Pair of Shoes, a Shirt, a Hat, a Wig, a Gown, a Petticoat, an Apron, and two Silver Tea-spoons, and other things, to the value of fifty shillings; the Goods of Robert Dalison , in his House in the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields , June 10th; of both these Indictments he was seperately found guilty, Death.

Robert Element , about 20 Years of Age, of mean Parents at Finehley ; his Parents died and left him young, and he was kept for some time at a Free-school, but he not having Opportunity to attend long there, did not attain much Knowledge, and was very ignorant in religious Matters.

Having no Friends to take Care of him, he was put to no particular Trade, but left to do what he could for his Bread: The Business he follow'd most was to drive a Cart, in which Employment he serv'd one Man as a Carter for four Years, and he said, in this Way he might have lived well enough, and got Money to maintain himself; but his Misfortune was, that he could not keep himself at one Thing, and being of a roving, unsettled Temper, he must needs leave his Business and come to London ; where being destitute of any Friends or Acquaintance who could do him any service, and wanting all the necessaries of Life, he was put to his Shifts, and to the utmost Extremities how to keep himself from starving; being reduc'd to such straits, he wrought about the River in the Coal-Barges , or did any other little Thing by which he might earn a Penny: But then the

Misery of all was, that he contracted Acquaintance with the vilest Black-Guards, Thieves, Whores, Robbers, Pick-Pockets, and such other refuse of Mankind, the worst and basest of that kind, as could be found about Town. He acknowlédg'd, that since he was a little Boy at School, he had never gone to Church, and had no profession of Religion, neither minded he any Thing but villainous and wicked Deeds, being wholly overwhelm'd with Vice, and Void of all Grace and Vertue.

As for the Facts of which he was convicted he utterly denied them, and mightily blam'd Norman the Evidence, for swearing so against him, in whose Power he had put it to do him such a Mischief, by contracting familiar Acquaintance with him.

I us'd many Arguments and Motives to engage him to the Confession of his Crimes, but upon that Head he was very obstinate, and was unwilling to give any further Satisfaction. I told him he did not Lye to Man, but God, who knew all our Thoughts aar off, and was fully acquainted with all our ways, and that therefore it was in vain to dissemble, since in a few Moments, he was to appear before the tremendous Tribunal of the great God, who will render to every Man according to his Actions in the Body, whether good or bad.

Upon which account, I desired him, for the love of Jesus, and as he loved his own Soul, fully and plainly to confess his Sins, and thereby to glorify God and to procure Benefit to his own Soul; Confession being a means to die with Peace in his own mind, and to obtain the Peace and Favour of God in a future Life. He said, he had

no more Confessions to make, and that he would be very injurious to himself, by telling a Falshood, to give the World worse Impressions of him after he was dead, than what he deserved. He owned also, that he had been a notorious Thief in stealing of small Things; for he never saw any thing he could lay his Hands upon, but that he coveted. But otherwise he denied that ever he was Guilty of House breaking, Street or Highway Robberies, &c. or any of those more heinous and notorious Crimes; and he said, that any thing he got by his Thieving or Pilfering was but in considerabe triffles, and scarce of any value: Yet he own'd that he had been a very vitious and naughty Youth, in keeping Company with base Women, and Gangs of Thieves and Robbers; particularly Norman, who, if he had liv'd any time, would have inevitably drawn him into their abominable Practices.

He also swore and blasphem'd much, was a great Drinker of Drams and other Liquors, neither did he know any thing, but the basest Vices and vilest habits, incident to such abandoned Wretches.

He was very sick all the time they were under Sentence, yet excepting a few Days, he always came to Chappel, though supported by others, and both in publick and private declared himself Penitent, for the great and many Sins of his Life, and appeared desious of Prayers and Instructions, which I endeavoured to instil in him, as the Bravity of time allowed.

The following is a Copy of a Prayer, which Daniel Tipping threw to the Bell-Man, just before he inade his speech; not knowing there was a Reprieve for him, which is as follows, viz.

O Most great and most wise and gracious God, though thou hatest all the workers of Iniquity, and cannot be reconciled unto Sin; yet through the Meditation of thy blessed Son with Pity behold this miserable Sinner, who casteth himself down at the Footstool of thy Grace. Had I lived to those high and noble Ends for which I was created and redeemed, I might now have come to thee in the Boldness and Confidence of a Child in Assurance of thy Love and Favour, but I have play'd the Fool, and the Rebel against thee, I have willfully forgotten the God that made me, and the Saviour that redeemed me, and the endless Glory which thou didst set before me: I forgot the Business which I was sent for into the World, and have lived as if I had been made for nothing but to pass a few Days in fleshly Pleasure, and hamper a Carcass for the Worms. I willfully forgot what it is to be a Man who hath Reason given him to rule his Flesh and to know his God, and to foresee his Death and the State of Immortallity; I made my Reason a Servant to my Senses, and I lived like the Beasts that perish. O! the precious Time that I have lost which all the World cannot call back. O! the Calls of Grace which I have neglected, and the Teachings of God which I have resisted; the wonderful Love which I unthankfully rejected, and the manifold Mercies which I have abused and turn'd into Wantonness and Sin, how deep is the Guilt which I have contracted, and how great is the Comforts which I have lost: I might have lived all this while in the Love of thee my gracious God, and in the Delights of thy holy Words and Ways.

In the daily sweet Foresight of Heaven, and in the Joy of the Holy Ghost; If I would have been ruled by thy righteous Laws, but I have hearkened to the Flesh, and to this wicked and deceitful World, and have preferr'd a short and sinful Life before thy Love and endless Glory.

Alas! what have I been doing since I came into the World, Folly and Sin hath taken up my Time, I am ashamed to look back upon the Years that I have spent, and to think of the Temptations that I have yielded to. Alas! what trifles have incited me from my God? How little have I had for the holy Pleasures which I have lost like Esau; I have prophanely fold my Birthright for one Morsel, to please my Fancy, my Appetite and my Lust. I have set Light by all the Joys of Heaven; I have ukindly despised the Goodness of my Maker; I have slighted the Love and Grace of my Redeemer; I have resisted my holy Spirit, silenc'd my own Conscience, and griev'd my Ministers and my most faithful Friends, and have brought myself into this wofull Case wherein I am at present, which makes me a Shame and Burden to myself, and God is my terror who should be my only hope and joy.

Thou knowest my secret Sins, which are unknown to Men; thou knowest all their Aggravations, my Sins O Lord have found me out, my Fears and Sorrows overwhelm me.

DANIEL TIPPIN .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

BEFORE he went out, Robert Ellement discover'd a great deal of Sensuality, minding little but Meat and Drink, which he to much wanted, considering the miserable Condition he was in. He was put in Mind, to think upon that Meat which perisheth not, but eedeth the Soul unto Life eternal: By godly Advices he was brought into somewhat of a serious Frame, and continued so at the Devotions in Chapel. He own'd the Crimes he was convicted of with a little variation of Circumstances, notwithstanding all the Denials and Protestations, he had formerly made to the Contrary. For this I reprov'd him, and for being Guilty of such horrid Dissimulation. Under the Tree he call'd for Drink, and it not coming to him in time, when I was praying he call'd out, Coachman, will not you give me a Pint? I was oblig'd to interrupt, and reprove him seriously for such a notable Miscarriage, and to desire him to think upon God and Christ, before whom he was immediately to appear. He said, all the Way he had been praying to God and Christ to have Mercy upon him. He was a poor, ignorant sensual Creature, and much to be pitied. After Prayers were over, he admonish'd young People to be were of Adultery, for his following after bad Women had brought him to this fatal Misfortune. He went off crying to God to have Mercy upon him, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

This is all the Account given by me James Gutherie .

ORDINARY of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

To be Sold by AUCTION, On Tuesday the 1st of August, and the four following Days.

THE Dwelling-House of the Lady MATHEWS, deceas'd, at Twickenham in the County of Middlesex, being pleasanlty situated near the Common; consisting of several Rooms on a Floor, Coach-Yard, Coach-House, and Stabling for six Horses, a large Barn, Brew House, Wash House, and other Out-Houses, a large Court-Yard before the House, fine Pleasure and Kitchen Gardening, with a good Geen-House, the Gardens being exceedingly well planted with Fruit and other Trees; a Padock with a Canal well stored with Carp; also two small Fields adjoining thereto, being part Copy hold and part Freehold, in the Manor of Sion, in extraordinary good Repair, having two Pews belonging to it in the Church.

A also the Houshold Furniture; consisting of fine Needlework, Chintz, Silk, and other Standing Beds, with Chairs, Hangings, and Window Curtains suitable to the same; Crimson Damask Window Curtains, Chairs and Hangings; India Cabinets, Screens, Chests and Tables of the rare old Japan, fine large Pier and Chimney-Glasses and Sconces, and a curious large Parcel of old Japan China Ware of the most useful Sort; Counterpanes, Pictures, and several valuable Curiosities, and all Manner of Kitchen Furniture; as also Statues, Vases and Flower-Pots, Orange, Lemon, and other fine Trees, Flowers, &c.

The House and Gardens to be view'd from this Publication (Sundays excepted;) the Goods, &c. may be view'd, and Catalogues will be deliver'd, on Wednesday the 26th Instant, and every Day till the Hour of Sale, which will begin each Day at Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon precisely.

The Conditions of Sale will be put up in the House.

Catalogues will be deliver'd at the Time beforementioned, at the Place of Sale, and at Mr. AARON LAMBE 's, Auctioneer,

At the Golden Head in Chandois-street , Covent. Garden .

N. B. The House, Gardens, &c. will be sold the first Day's Sale.

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Applebee , in Bolt Court , near the Leg Tavern in Fleet-Street .

1. The Life of Catherine Hayes (who was Executed at Tyburn on the 9th of May, 1726, for the barbarous Murder of her Husband) giving a true and perfect Account of her Parentage, Birth, Education, &c, from the Time of her Birth, to the Hour of her Death: Together with every minute Circumstance relating to that horrid Affair. To which is added, the Lives of Thomas Wood and Thomas Billings , the to Persons concern'd with her in committing the said Murder; the Whole taken from the Mouths of the several Criminals themselves, during their Confinement in Newgate . Price Six-pence.

II. An Account of all the Robberies, Escapes, &c. of John Sheppard , giving an exact Description of the manner of his wonderful Escape from the Castle in Newgate , and of the Methods he took afterwards for his Security. Written by himself during his Confinement in the middle Stone-Room, after his being re-taken in Drury-Lane . To which is prefix'd, a true Representation of his Escape from the Condemn'd Hold, curiously engraven on a Copper Plate. Price Six-pence.

III. A true and exact Account of the Lives of Edward Burnworth , alias Frasier , William Blewit , Thomas Berry , and Emanuel Dickenson , who were Executed at Kingston on the 6th of April 1726, for the barbarous Murder of Thomas Ball in St. George's Fields . Price Six-pence.

IV. A genuine Narative of the memorable Life and Actions of John Dyer , a notorious Highwayman and House breaker, who was Executed at Tyburn on Fryday the 21st of November 1729, Price Six-pence.

To be SOLD by HAND, On Monday the 31st of July and the following Days, (the lowest Price being fix'd on each Particular, without any Abatement.

AT SURMAN'S Great-House , in Soho-square , St. Anne's , all the entire Houshold Goods as likewise all the fine Works of the noted Mr. James Faucon , Cabinet-maker and Glass-grinder: The Goods consisting of Standing Beds and Bedding, large Glass Sconces in carv'd and gilt Frames, fine Walnut-tree Desks and Bookcases with Glass Doors, Walnut-tree double Chests of Drawers, Bueroes, Bueroe Tables, Dressing Tables, fine Walnut-tree Quadrile Tables, several fine Mahogony Writing Tables on Casters, and new fashion'd Mahogony Tables which serve for five Uses, as Dining, Writing, Draughts, Back-gammon, and Quadrile; Mahogony Chests for Cloaths, fine Mahogony

Tables, and Breakfast Dining Tables, Night Tables, Box Tables, Corner Tables, and Dumb Waiters on Casters, several fine Tables carved and gilt with Gold, several Dozens of the newest fashion'd Walnut-tree Chairs, covered with Velvet, Damask, black Spanish Leather, or uncover'd, fine Mahogony Chairs, Virginia Walnut-tree Chairs with matted, Bottoms, Beech Chairs of several Sorts, fine Walnut tree Dressing Chairs, Close-stool Chairs, Satees and Chair Beds, fine white Cllicoe Quilts and printed Quilts of all Sorts fine new Whitney Blankets of all Sizes, Eight Day Clocks Table Clocks, Carpets, Pictures, and China.

N. B. At the same Place is sold the best new white Hard-Metal Pewter, call'd French Pewter, at 12 d per Pound, or change New for Old, at 4 d, per Pound; Water Plates and Dishes, Tureenes and Covers, are sold as cheap in Proportion.

This Day are publish'd, PROPOSALS For PRINTING by SUBSCRIPTION, A Second Edition of

THE Translation of Mr. RAPIN DETHOYRAS 'S History of England. In Two Volumes in Folio. By N. TINDAL, M. A. Vear of Great Waltham in Essex; with the following improvements:

I. The TRANSLATION is thoroughly revised and corrected.

II. The many Errors and Mistakes of the ORIGINAL are carefully rectified.

III. Several Hndred of Marginal References, accidentally omitted by the AUTHOR, are suply'd.

IV. Additional Notes throughout, with Maps and Genealogical Tables.

As the chief Intent of this Edition is to render RAPIN'S History as universal as useful, it will be published in the following Manner:

I. The whole will be comprised in Four Hundred Sheets and printed in a New Letter, and on a fine Genoa Paper, the same with the Specimen.

II. The Price to the Subscribers (including Cuts, Maps and Tables) will be two Guineas in Sheets; one Guinea to be paid down, and the other at the Delivery of the Second Volume.

III. Is in design'd, (whilst the two Volumes are printing) to publish every Week Five Sheets for Six-pence, the first Number to be published on Saturday the 5th of August. The Reason of This, is, to prevent Gentlemen from being drawn in by the specious Pretences of One, who has lately set on Foot the Project of a new Translation to be published in weekly Pamphlets of Four Sheets only for Six-pence, and pretends the whole will be contained in Four Hundred Sheets; when it evident. (by comparing what is already publish'd with the Original) that the Number of Sheets will amount to between Five and Six Hundred; consequently the Price will be almost double of That of this Second Edition, considering the great Expence of engraveing the Maps and Tables.

N. B. The Five Sheets to be published weekly, will contain about Six of the new projected Translation.

IV. Such as take the weekly Numbers will be reckon'd as Subscribers, that is, shall pay but two Guineas, though the Number of Sheets should happen to exceed Four Hundred.

V. The First Volume will be ready to be deliver'd to the Subscribers soon after Christmas next, and the Second by Michaelmas following, which is but one Quarter of the Time wherein a new Translation can be done as it ought by any one Hand.

SUBSCRIPTIONS are taken in by James , John and Paul Knapton , remov'd from St. Paul's Church-yard , to the Crown in Ludgate-street , near the West End of St. Paul's .

Where may also be had, the History compleat, in 15 Volumes in Octavo.

ELectuarium Mirable; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed, and Safety, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former In fection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easie in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases, To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author, Dr. C A M, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden-Ball in Bow-Church-yard, Cheap side, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-sellers-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with, on any Occasion: And tho' by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts. viz. I. On the Simple Gonorrhaea Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces Self-pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaea, or Clap. III. On the Venereal Lue, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout. Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Dissertation on the Pox, Dedicated to Sir Hans Sloane . Price 1 s. 6 d. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhil, E. Midwinter in St. Paul's Church-yard, and at the Author's House before-mentioned.

Notice to the Ladies and Gentlemen, From Dr. Helmont, who Prepares for the Use of his own Family, and the Families of his Friends and Patients, amongst whom are many of Distinction and Quality.

THE TRUE SAL VOLATILE OLEOSUM, That Great and Noted RESTORER and PRESERVER OF HEALTH and LONG-LIFE

BY which NUMBERS OF PEOPLE having found Benefit even beyond all Expectation, in the most Chronical DISEASES, besides those of the Head, Spirit, and Nerves, they have prevailed with him to make it, in this Manner known, for the good of those who may not have heard of it.

Its exceeding Volatility, and peculiar aromatick Fragrancy and Efficacy, is what has gain'd it the esteem it is in, it fully answering in the various Maladies and Obstructions which all Physicians in Europe ascribe the true Preparation, of this excellent Medicine to be good for, and which is so superiour to the common Sorts sold in the Shops, that upon comparing them together, there will be found as much Difference, both for Elegancy and Effects, as there is almost between two contrary Medicines; twenty Drops of this, containing more Vertues than a Spoonful of those.

For in the Manner, and from the Ingredients, this is prepared, it is brought to the highest Perfection, and become the most powerful Cephalick, Stomachick, and Cardiack known and is withal the best Remedy for the Nerves, in the whole Materia Medica.

A few Drops of it, stirred well about, in a Glass of Water or Wine, or both together mix'd, makes a most delicious reviving Cordial, for it immediately raises and exhilerates the sinking Spirits, takes away all Sickness at Stomach, creates an Appetite, rectifies the Digestions, expels Wind, dispels Melancholly, relieves in the Hippo, Vapours, and Hysterick Fits; for it makes the Heart chearful, the Mind gay, delights the Intellects, comforts languid Nature, and warms, makes sprightly, and invigorates an old and cold Constitution.

It supports and lifts up, falling and drooping Spirits, dissolves Grumous, cuts sizy, moves stagnating, depurates feculent, and enriches an impoverished weakened Blood, facilitating the Circulations of that, and every other Juice of the Body.

By this Means it is, that it rouses in Lethargies, prevents Appoplexies, revives so wonderful in Heaviness and Faintness, fortides in Palpitations of the Heart, and in all sudden Surprizes, both by being inwardly taken and smelled to, and as it so momentarily penetrates and runs through all the Nerves, it greatly helps in Palsies, and all Weaknesses and Tremblings of the Joints and Limbs, and by Bathing them also with it, brings them, by Degrees, to their due Tone, Strength, and Motion.

A few Drops of it rubbed between the Palms of the Hands, and the Hands held immediately over the Nose and Eyes, drawing strongly the Scent up the Nostrils, gives instant Ease in the most vehement Head-ach, Giddiness, Swimming, Drowsiness, Faintings, and all other Disorders of the Head and Brain, and also helps to strengthen weak Eyes, especially if it be also rubbed often on the Temples, and behind the Ears.

And by being taken inwardly at the same time, prevents infinite Diseases, both of the Head and whole Body; and takes away Pains and Stitches of the Sides, Pleriies and Rheumatisms!

These are the real Vertues confirmed by the Experience both of Physicians and Patients, of this true Sal Volatile Olesum, and which are not inherent in the sorts that hear that Name; nor has there been any Thing more said of it, than what every one that tries it will assuredly find.

Is Sold in Half Crown Flint Bottles, fit for the Pocket, (seal'd up, with printed Directions how to take it, and use it) only at Mr. Isted's, Bookseller, at the Golden-Ball,

St. Dunstan's-Church in Fleet-street,

