THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were Executed at Tyburn, on Monday the 24th of this Instant March, 1729.

BY Virtue of his Majesty's Commission of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, at the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily (before the Right Honourable Sir ROBERT BAYLIS , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; Mr. Justice Price; Mr. Baron Cummins; Mr. Justice Probyn; Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London; and John Raby , Esq ; Serjeant at Law ; with other his Majesty's Justices of Jail-Delivery, and Oyer and Terminer aforesaid; together with several of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace, for the said City of London, and County of Middlesex) on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 26th, 27th, and 28th of February, and Saturday, Monday, and Wednesday, being the 1st, 3d, and 5th of March, 1728-9, in the Second Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Fourteen Men, viz. Peter Kelly , John Edmonds , William Lythe , Timothy Cotton , William Marple , Charles Cook , James Mace , Nicholas Dawlin , Robert Blake , Henry Geahogan , John Bowling , William Sparrow George Galley , and James Ferris , and two Women, viz. Mary Dudmash , and Eleanor Oldfield , were Capitally Convicted, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence they were instructed, how that it was necessary for them to reform and amend the Evil of their Ways and Doings; for that all Men being by nature Enemies to God, and consequently. Obnoxious to the Divine Wrath and Vengeance; and they having committed Sins of a more heinous Nature, as the Scripture expressethit; they having corrupted themselves, their spot not having been the Spot of God's Children; and they having been a perverse Generation. Therefore, they were liable to a double degree of Punishment. Then I shew'd them that the only way to escape this terrible and severe Judgment of God, was, to apply themselves with the utmost Vigour and Sincerity, to the great Work of their Souls Salvation, while any short space of Time remain'd, since their Work they had to do, was of the highest Importance, their time very short, and their strength but small, nothing less depending upon the improvement of a few remaining Moments; than the eternal Salvation or Damnation of their Souls, &c. I insisted on the horrid Sin of Murder, from the Prophet Nathan's Application of his Parable to King David, 2. Sam. 7 12. Thou art the Man. I let him see the atrocious Nature of this Sin, how that it was a Breach of the express Law of God, Thou shalt not Kill, or as it is otherwise express'd, Thou shalt do no Murder: I shew'd him the Injustice, the Cruelty, the Inhumanity, the Barbarity of this most atrocious Crime, and that however, secretly Murder might be Committed, yet the vengeance of God always pursu'd the Murderer, so that seldom, if ever, he escap'd exemplary Punishment in this World: Accordingly the first precept God gave to Noah after the Flood was, not to suffer the Murderer to pass unpunished, Gen. 5. 6. Who so sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed; For in the Image of God made he Man. I took occasion to shew that Murdering and taking away the Life of our Neighbour unjustly, was encroaching upon the Divine right of Almighty God, who is the only Sovereign Lord of the Life and Death of his Creatures, Deut. 32. 39. I kill, and I make alive. I reflected upon the hellish Cruelty of such a Sin, as endeavouring, what in him lies at once, to destroy both the Soul and Body forever; if the mercy of God in Jesus Christ prevent it not. I told him how that this Sin, in an especial manner, must certainly excite Hell upon Earth in the Breast of the Sinner, his own conscience like a Legion of Devils, still Racking and Tormenting him, and presenting to his Eyes the Image of the Murder'd Person, so that his Life becomes a Burthen to himself, and like Cain the first Murtherer, Gen 4. 13. His Punishment is greater than he can bear. I exhorted them all to an ingenuous Confession of their Sins, and to that purpose I used many, most pressing Motives and Arguments. I inform'd them how that they were early Dedicated to God in their Baptism, to deny themselves to the World, the Flesh and the Devil, and to Dedicate their Souls and Bodies unto God; and how notoriously they had broken their Baptismal Vows and Engagements, and that therefore they ought now to renew themselves by Repentance, and in token of their sincere Repentance, to receive the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, as a sure Pledge and Symbol of that everlasting Communion and Fellowship, which blessed Spirits shall have with God in the other World.

When these and many such instructions were afforded them; Peter Kelly , John Edmonds , and John Bowling , could not read, but behav'd themselves gravely, and seem'd attentive and serious in Chappel; Timothy Cotton , William Marple , Robert Blake , William Sparrow , George Galley , Mary Dudmash , and Eleanor Oldfield made regular responces in time of Prayer; Charles Cook , James Mace , and Nicholas Dawlin , were miserably Poor, and Cloathed with Rags, and being Sick, they came seldom to Chappel, but when they came, they behav'd themselves decently, as they did also at other Times, when I visited them in the Cells; James Ferris was most of the time Sick, and declar'd himself very Penitent both in Publick and Private; William Lythe never came to Chappel, having been confin'd to a Couch, by reason of a Swelling and violent Distemper in his Feet and Legs, but as I daily visited him in the Cell, he always appear'd very Penitent; Henry Geahogan was sore afflicted with Poverty and Sickness, yet he constantly attended in Chappel with apparent Devotion.

Upon Sunday Night, the 16th Instant, William Sparrow and George Galley found Means to break out of the Cells, and make their Escape, by lifting up two Deals in the Floor, and digging through two Brick-walls, upon which the Cells are founded, and then conveying themselves into the new House, not yet inhabited, adjoyning to the Cells,

they open'd the Parlour Window and got into the Street, and so went of.

Upon Thursday the 20th of March, the Report of the above-named Malefactors under Sentence of Death in Newgate, was made to his Majesty in Council: When James Mace , for breaking the House of Humphry Wood , the 10th of November last, in Company with Charles Cook and Nicholas Dawling , and stealing Money, &c. James Ferris for counterfeiting the current Coin of this Kingdom, &c. in Company with Robert Blake and Henry Geahogen , alias Gorgan , &c. Mary Dudmash , of St. Martins in the Fields , for stealing a Silver Watch, Value 40 s. a Silver Cup, 10 s. a Salt 3 s. a Silver Spoon, 5 s. a Prayer Book, some Pewter, and other Goods, in the Dwelling-house of Richard Potter ; and other Goods the Property of Sarah Cutting ; and Eleanor Oldfield , of St. Brides , for feloniously stealing a Silver Watch, Value 4 l. and a Seal and String, the Goods of Joseph Weston , on the 10th of February last, from the Person of the said Joseph Weston ; Received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining Ten, viz. Peter Kelly , John Edmonds , William Lythe , Timothy Cotton , William Marple , Charles Cook , Nicholas Dawling , Robert Blake , Henry Gehaogan , and John Bowling , were order'd for Execution.

Robert Blake , and Henry Geahogan , alias Gorgan , of St. Brides , were indicted for High Treason, in counterfeiting and making 13 Pieces of Money, call'd Shillings, of Copper, Tin, Brass, Pewter, and other mix'd Metals, bearing the Stamp, and made after the Likeness and Similitude of the current Coin of Great Britain, and for making six other Pieces of Money, call'd Six-pences, as aforesaid, and knowing the same to be false, base Money, and Counterfeit, putting off the said Money for the current Coin of Great Britain.

Henry Geahogan , 30 Years of Age, of mean Parents, his Father having been a Coachman, left him Young upon the Care of his Mother, who educated him at School, and who, after he had acquir'd some considerable Skill in Writing a fair Hand, commenc'd a Writing-master in the North of Ireland , where (as he said) he got pretty good Business, and liv'd there a considerable Time, retaining the Character and Reputation of an honest, industrious young Man; but either his Business failing, or he loving a travelling Life, and desirous to see the World, went to Foreign Countries, and visited France , Spain , Germany , Holland , and other neighbouring Kingdoms and States of Europe; and as he was in Flanders two or three Years ago, one of his own Countrymen taught him the curious Art of coining Money, which, when he came to England , his Business failing him, he intended to follow and improve his Art and Skill that way. He said, that another Countryman recommended him to Mr. Blake, for being his Usher, and Assistant in teaching young Gentlemen to fence with the small Sword, in which Art both of them profess'd themselves to be great Masters of Skill; But when Mr. Geohagan went to Blake's School near the Temple , not one Schollar appeared, after they had attended for some Days; then Geahogan took himself to his other Business of coining Money, and told Blake what a dextrous Hand he had in casting of fine Pieces, which they might pass for good Coin, and by that Means they might live easily and perhaps acquire Riches, by imposing upon all the rest of Mankind. But that Proposal soon fail'd them. He had been a very wicked Fellow in Drinking, Swearing, Whoring, disobeying his Mother, who had educated him, and many other Vices. He beat and drag'd his old Mother, who was try'd with him for High Treason, and acquitted, very unmercifully, and for doing so he was put and kept in Bridewell a long Time, and by this Imprisonment having lost what little Credit he had before, when he was set at Freedom, he apply'd himself with his Accomplices to the counterfeiting and passing off bad Money, and for that end provided himself in Moulds, Files, Crucibles, and other Materials fit for his wicked Purpose, as appear'd by the Evidence which was given against him. He was miserably Poor, sick, and destitute of Cloathing. He constantly attended in Chappel, behav'd himself Gravely and decently, and profess'd himself Penitent for all his Sins. He was very unwilling to forgive his Prosecutor, and shaking his Head, when that was propos'd to him, at different Times, he said, that he would not do till the last; accordingly, on Saturday before he died, with much Intreaty, I got him freely to forgive all his Enemies. He declar'd, that he believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, repented sincerely of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World, and in Communion of the Church of Rome .

John Edmonds , of Harrow-on-the-Hill , was indicted for feloniously stealing a black Gelding, Value 4 l. on the 15th Day of February last, the Property of Miles Lewis .

John Edmonds , 25 Years of Age, born near Harrow-on-the-Hill , of mean Parents, who were not Capable to give him much Education, liv'd by serving of Gardiners , and Husband-work in the Country. He had been accustomed to pilfering and stealing of small things, but had not committed any great Robbery, excepting the Horse which he stole, and for which he died, and which he did not deny. He was Disobedient to his Parents, and did not keep the School well, was grosly Ignorant, and seldom frequented the Church. He was Silly and Foolish, and spoke like one void of all Sense. I endeavour'd what I could to instruct him, but he was of such a slow and dull Apprehension, that he was scarce capable of understanding any thing at all. He constantly attended in Chapel and appear'd attentive, but was so full of Stupidity, that it could not be expected he could profit much. He declar'd himself Penitent, that he believed in Christ, and died in Peace with all the World.

William Lythe , of St. Georges's, Hanover-Square , was indicted for feloniously stealing two Geldings, Value 50 l. on the 23d of January last, the Property of John Sentamore .

William Lythe , 45 Years of Age, born in Yorkshire , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, and instructed him in the Principles of Christianity. He was not of any particular Trade, but marrying a Wife, he had some Children, and kept a publick Inn on the Road, and failing in his Business, he was oblig'd to leave his Family and come up to London , where he serv'd for two Years past, till he fell into the sad Misfortune, for which he died. He said, that he never was a lewd Liver, but kept a good Family with his Wife and Children in the Country, read the Word of God, went to Church, and that he had frequently taken the Sacrament; neither was he ever a Thief or Robber, but that he always liv'd in good Character and Reputation. As to the Fact for which he died, he said, that he did not steal the two Horses, but that he own'd that he gave the Key of the Stable to another Person, who had gone off with the Horses, by the Persuasion of two Men. I told him, that he had no Body to blame but himself for his Misfortune, if it was so, but this Account of the Matter seeming improbable, I exhorted him to make a free Confession, and to glorify God by so doing. He would not acknowledge any more, but as I daily visited him in the Cell, (for he was so afflicted with Sickness and Lameness, that he never came to Chapel) he appear'd very Devout, and was very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations. He died Penitent in appearance, believ'd to be sav'd only through the Merits of Jesus Christ, freely forgiving all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from Almighty God.

Peter Kelly , alias Owen , alias Nisbit , of Thomas-street , Drury-Lane , was indicted, for that he not having the fear

of God before his Eyes, but being led by the Malice and Instigation of the Devil, did on the 28th of January last, kill and murder Robert Nisbit , with a Razor, giving him a mortal Wound in the Throat, of the length of 10 Inches, and depth of 4 Inches, of which he died.

Peter Kelly , alias Owen , alias Nisbit , whose true Name (as he said) was Mackhuen , but to make it, of a smoother Pronunciation, and like to an English Name, he call'd himself Owen or Howen , 40 Years of Age, was born in the North of Ireland , of mean Parents, who gave him no Education at School, so that he could not read or write. When of Age, he was put to a Weaver , and having serv'd out his Time, he married and liv'd for some Time in his own Country, and then he came to London , and follow'd his Business here. He said, that he had always lived honestly, and had never been Thief or Robber; but that otherwise he had been very Profligate in his Life, Whoring, Drinking, and idling away his Time, and neglecting his Business, so that his Wife and Children were forc'd to go a begging, while he went about from House to House, playing upon his two Jews-Harps at once, in doing of which he was very ingenious, and obtruding himself upon all Companies in Ale-houses, and often none of the best, who gave him Drink, and sometimes a little Money for his Musick. As to the Murder of which he was convicted, he was very obstinate in denying it, although the Proof was as clear, as can commonly be obtain'd in Cases of that Nature. I earnestly exhorted him to make a plain Confession, for easing his own Conscience, and to glorify God, by acknowledging Faults. He said, that the deceas'd Mr. Nisbit had been his best Friend in the World, and that he was a very good, honest, charitable Man. He constantly attended in Chapel, and behav'd himself with Gravity and Attention, and never wanted Presence of Mind. He declar'd his Belief of being sav'd only through the Merits of Christ, that he repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World, and (as he said) in Communion of the Church of Rome .

Timothy Cotton , and William Marple , of St. George's Hanover Square , were Indicted for assaulting John Stout on the Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him a Hat value 2 s. and 6 d. two pounds of Butter, and two pair of Stockings, the Goods of Captain Trever, and a Knife, a Stock and Buckle, 5 s. and 6 d. the Money and Goods of the aforesaid John Stout .

William Marple , of Honest respected Parents, who gave him excellent education at School, both in Town and Country, of which he made no good use and improvement. When of Age, he was put to four different Masters and Trades, but stay'd with none of them. He stay'd longest with a Joyner , but before his Time was out, he fancy'd a young Woman and Married her; his Master coming to know this, and other quarrels arising between them, he left him, or was put away. He said, he lov'd his first Wife dearly, and liv'd Honestly with her, and would have continu'd so, if she had liv'd; but she dying in a short Time, he went out of Town, and at a Village near the Town, he contracted familiarity with a young Woman, who had no good Advice to give him, but was willing to let him go upon the most Wicked adventures to purchase Money for her, whom he brought to Town, took Lodgings for her, and liv'd some time with her, although one Rowden was blam'd for first advising him to rob on the High-Way, he said he did it not, he having often committed Robberies on the High-way, before he joyn'd in Partnership with him. He it was with Cotton, who lately rob'd a Gentleman in Marybone-Fields and beat him. He rob'd a Woman not far from that, of a Basket, in which was a Leg of Mutton, which he caus'd to be Roasted next Day for his Dinner, a pound of Butter and some other things, and then he took her Purse, in which he found Seven Shillings, and he struck the Woman because she said she had no Money. He attack'd another Woman, who had nothing. He it was with Cotton, who stopt the Hampstead Coach at the Style, and rob'd the Passengers; and three Gentlemen on Horse-back coming up, who (as he was since inform'd) knew him, he presented and commanded to ride off apace, they thinking that he had order'd them to deliver, they were preparing to give them Money, but he not knowing their intention, swore he would shoot them if they would not ride off, and then they were glad to slip away with all convenient speed. He was lately Imprison'd in Newgate for robbing an old Gentleman of 35 or 36 Guineas, who would not Prosecute Marple, becase a near Relation of the old Mans committed the Robbery with him, and a third Person confederated with them, waited at the Door till they came out, and then they divided the Money equally between them. He robbed also a Gentleman at, or near to Chelsea . He committed a great many other Robberies, and said, that he could tell me of forty of fifty, but knowing that no Body could remember them, he would not trouble the World with any farther Account of that kind. He commended his late Wife for a Virtuous good Woman, as also the young Woman whom he lately Married, and who is still living, and said, that she knew nothing of his wicked courses, and desir'd that no Body might be so unjust, as to impute his crimes to her. He also said, that lew'd Women were his ruin. He own'd, that his Parents (particularly his Mother) were very indulgent to him, but that he never took her advice, which might have prevented his misfortune. He said, that he believ'd he had been Drunk seven times, for he had no pleasure in Drinking, but he was very much addicted to Whoring, Coveteousness, and Idleness; not much to Swearing. He commonly appear'd with too great an Air of indifference, while under Sentence. He declar'd that he believ'd to be Sav'd by the Mercy of God through Christ, that he was sincerely Penitent for his whole most Sinful and wicked Life, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

Timothy Cotton , near 25 Years of his Age, descended of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, and instructed him in the necessary Articles of our Holy Christian Faith. He follow'd the Business of a Poulterer , and sold Fowls up and down the Town, and in the Counry about, and made a good Livelyhood for his Wife and Family that way, neither did he want for any thing needful to a Man in his Circumstances. He said, that the occasion of his going to rob on the Highway, was, his meeting with bad Company, particularly of lewd Women, with whom he spent all his Money, which being gone, he thought the easiest way to get himself Recruited was, to take a Purse from Gentlemen or others, whom he met on the Highway, who were better provided than he, when it cost him little or no pains, or labour; although by that means he lost what was much more Valuable, his Character and a good Conscience, besides the certain loss of Life, whenever he could be Discover'd and Apprehended. He said also, that he never was a pilfering Thief, and that he was but fourteen Days before he was taken up, employ'd in that wicked and unlawful Practice of Highway Robberies, and that he only committed five Robberies, two or three of them in Company with Marple, who had been his old School Fellow and intimate Acquaintance, when both of them were Young. He desir'd me also to take notice, that no Man nor Woman in the World ever advised him, to betake himself to that desperate course of Life, but that it was nothing but the Temptations of the

Devil and his own depriv'd Inclinations, which led him Headlong to his Destruction. And he earnestly desir'd, that the World might not reproach his Wife with any of his Villainous enterprizes, of which she was altogether Innocent and Ignorant. He confess'd himself to have been a very great Sinner in Whoring, Drinking, Swearing and Sabbath-breaking: He own'd the Justice of his Sentence according to Law, profess'd his Faith in Christ a sincere Repentance for all his Sins, and declar'd that he died in Peace with all the World.

William Marple , said also, that he contracted acquaintance with Edgworth Bess , alias Bess Lyon , Mistress or Wife to the late famous Jack Shepherd , with whom he liv'd for some Time, after the Death of Shepherd, on the other side of the Water. Her he call'd one of the basest, vilest Women in the World, and he told that she put him upon every thing that's wicked and vicious, and that she was a great cause of his Ruin. He own'd also, that he had for a long Time been a pilfering Thief, and that he went out much upon the Sneak. Both of them behav'd decently in Chappel, and declar'd themselves heartily Sorry for their wicked course of Life. They also own'd that they committed the Robbery for which they were convicted, and that their Sentence was very just. Marple said also, that he struck several of them whom he rob'd very severely, but never with any design to Murder, or in such a manner, as to do them much harm.

Charles Cook , and Nicholas Dawling , of Hackney , were Indicted for breaking into the Dwelling-House of Humphry Wood , on the 10th of November in the Nigh-time, and taking thence 4 Moidores, a broad Piece, 14 Guineas, 9 Shillings in Silver, and some wearing Apparel, the property of the said Humphry Wood .

The Prosecutor depos'd, that the three Prisoners came into the House, all of them in Soldiers Westcoats, each of them with lighted Candles and drawn Swords in their Hands, and Cook swore if he thought that he knew him, he would Kill him, Mrs. Wood and Benjamin Lloyd concur'd with him in swearing the Robbery upon them, and that they tyed them all with Cords, and William Webb , and Mr. Monday confirm'd the latter part of the Evidence.

They had little to say in their own Defence, only that they did not commit the Fact, but could produce no Witnesses where they were at the Time, or so much as for their Character. Guilty of Death,

Charles Cook , 25 Years of Age, born in Northamptonshire of Honest Parents, who bred him a Blacksmith , which employment he follow'd for some Time, but he not liking to be Confin'd, listed himself a Soldier , and was in the Siege of Gibraltar two Years ago; where and in other Places (as he said) he behav'd himself Honestly and with Approbation.

Nicholas Dawling , 27 Years of Age, born in the Country, of mean Parents, who gave him no Education at School. They were both of them ignorant, illiterate Men, and had been wholly sunk in Vice and Sensuality. Cook had been tender-ey'd and weak-sighted, and therefore he could not go to School when he was Young, but when he was at Sea he perfectly recover'd his Sight, and his Eyes turned altogether well. They own'd, that they had been extremely Wicked in Whoring, (although both of them had Wives) Drinking, Swearing, and Blaspheming, and other Vices. They told me, that at the Siege of Gibraltar, Bullets and Shells flew about them like Hail-stones, which did not hurt them. I desir'd them to reflect upon such a signal Preservation, and how Ungrateful they had been to God for their Deliverance; the Truth of this Reflection they own'd. Cook said, that it was Love of Drink, not the Want of any thing needfull, which made them go a thieving. Cook, Dawling, and a third Person joyn'd in Confederacy to break Houses. Cook said they only committed three such Robberies. They were sore afflicted with Sickness, and could not come often to Chapel, but when they came they were very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, as also when I visited them in the Cells. I endeavour'd what I could to instruct them, but they appear'd to be of a sluggish Nature and slow Understanding, and incapable, in the Case they were then in, of receiving much Instruction, They declar'd, that they believ'd in Christ, were Penitent, and that they died in Peace with all Men.

John Bowling , of St. Paul's, Covent-Garden , was indicted for stealing a linnen Bag, 48 Guineas, and 7 l. 16 s. in Silver, in the Dwelling-house of William Fardell , on the 24th of December last, the Property of the said William Fardell .

John Bowling , not full 15 Years of Age, of honest but poor Parents. He had little or no Education, had been a very naughty Boy, disobedient to his Parents, and otherwise Wicked and Perverse in many Respects, particularly, in getting himself often Drunk, in Lying and Swearing. He was grosly Ignorant of religious Principles. I endeavour'd to instruct him, but to little Purpose. When he came to Chapel he appear'd to be devout and attentive. Some Days before Execution he was in a high Fever, and could scarce speak, and his Senses were almost gone, When he had any Health, he declar'd that he believ'd in Christ, and to be sav'd through his Merits, that he was Penitent, and that he freely forgave all Injuries done him. He could never, while he was under Sentence, speak much, either for fear of the ignominious Death he was to undergo, or because of his Weakness. He died in almost miserable Condition.

At the Place of Execution,

THEY all behav'd decently, and (to appearance) as became Penitents. Timothy Cotton , and William Marple , as formerly they had done, desired to let the World know, that their Wives were no ways Accessary to their Villainous Practices. The rest of them said, that they had nothing to add to their former Confessions.

N. B. Robert Blake , got his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve, as he was stepping into the Sledge, at the Prison of Newgate .

This all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE , Ordinary of Newgate .

London Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Black-Fryers .

