THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed, viz. Richard Keele and William Lowther on Clerkenwell-Green , and the rest at Tyburn, on Wednesday the 23d of December, 1713.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-baily, on Wednesday the 9th, Thursday the 10th, Friday the 11th, Saturday the 12th, and Monday the 14th instant, 23 Persons (viz. 17 Men, and 6 Women) being Try'd for, and Convicted of divers Capital Crimes, did accordingly receive Sentence of Death: Of which number 10 having obtain'd the Mercy of a Reprieve, (which it highly imports them well to improve) 13 of them are now order'd for Execution. And may this be such a Warning to others, as to deterr them from following that wicked Course of Life, the End whereof is Shame, Death, and Misery.

While all these poor Souls lay under this sad Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them brought up (twice every day) to the Chapel of Newgate, where I pray'd with them, and read and expounded the Word of GOD to them; which they seem'd devoutly to receive, and give serious Attention to: And,

On the Lord's Day the 13th instant I publickly preach'd to them, and others there present, in the Morning, upon part of the Gospel for the Day, viz. St. Mat. 11. 10. For it is written, Behold, I send my Messenger before thy Face, which shall prepare Thy Way before Thee.

In my Opening of which Words I shew'd, First, Who was that Messenger; and Secondly, What was the End of his Message, viz. the Preaching of Repentance. A Subject seasonable at all times (especially at this) to be insisted upon: Therefore I discours'd my Auditory on this great Point, and herein observ'd these two things chiefly, viz. That there is,

I. A Natural, or Legal And, II. An Evangelical Repentance.

The first of which, (viz. Legal Repentance) I shew'd them, affords no true Comfort to the Sinner's Soul; but the other [Evangelical Repentance] is available to Salvation.

Having unfolded these, and explain'd 'em in general, I then proceeded further to give a particular Account of this Evangelical Repentance, which always is accompanied with Faith, and indeed is the blessed Fruit of it, and may (in short) be thus describ'd:

" Evangelical Saving Repentance is a very heavy and sore Displeasure, which " a Man has and feels in his Heart for his Sins, because they are Breaches of the " Laws of Heaven, and consequently heinous Offences against Almighty God, his " most Loving and merciful Father: And hereupon a wonderful and admirable " Change is wrought in his Mind, Will. Affections, and Actions, which are absolutely turn'd from bad to good, by the power of the Divine Spirit, begetting " in his Soul a perfect Hatred against Sin, and a true Love to GOD, with a sincere " Desire and fix'd Resolution for the future to order and govern his whole Life " and Conversation by the Holy Will of GOD reveal'd in His Sacred Word, making it (to that End) the main Subject of his close Study and constant Practice.

For the obtaining of this great and precious Grace, to which Eternal Life and Salvation are annex'd, I then gave my Congregation some plain Directions. In the Afternoon I preach'd again to them, taking my Text out of the 9th Chapter of the Epistle to the Hebrews, Ver. 27, the Words being these; - It is appointed unto Men once to die; but after this the Judgment.

From which Words I shew'd, That it is a certain Rule in general, that all Men are subject to Death, and must die; (which is most evident from the daily Experience of all Mankind.) And, That immediately after the Souls departure out of its Body, it will receive Sentence either of Absolution, or Condemnation; the Body itself remaining unjudged till the last Day, when it shall be re-united to the very self-same Soul that once dwelt in it while in this World, and shall be made Partaker with it of that Eternal State either of Weal or Woe, to which it was adjudged before, in the other World.

From this Doctrine, which I (then) more largely explain'd, I drew some pressing Arguments to invite Sinners to Repentance; shewing,

I. That this present Life is the only Time allotted us by Almighty God to prepare for Eternity.

II. That our Day of Grace (if not pass'd before) is certainly at an End, whenever Death has given the final determining Stroke: For after this it will be impossible for the Obstinate Sinner ever to repent to any good purpose.

III. and lastly, That as we die but Once, and this Once is for Eternity, so ought we carefully, and in due time, to make Provision (by a good Life and penitent Death here) for a State of Bliss and Glory hereafter; which State of the Blessed (as well as that of the Undone Wretches, who would not repent) is Eternal and Unalterable.

All this I proved both from Scripture and Reason, and endeavoured to make all that heard me sensible of the mischievous and dismal Consequences of a Wicked Life, and the Necessity of their applying themselves to God for a lively Faith, without which it is impossible to please Him; and for a True sincere Repentance, without which also there can be no Pardon nor Salvation.

Again, On the last Lord's Day, the 20th instant, I preach'd (both in the Morning and Afternoon) to the Prisoners, and others there present, who were many, yea too many; and my Text was taken out of the Gospel for the Day, viz. Joh. 1. 23. I am the Voice of One crying in the Wilderness, Make straight the Way of the Lord, as said the Prophet Esaias.

This Text, with the Context, I did explain in general; shewing, That to the Question which the Priests and Pharisees put to St. John the Baptist, asking him What he was, he answer'd;

1. Negatively, That he was not the Christ; And,

2. Positively, That he was Vox Clamantis in Deserto, the Voice of One crying in the Wilderness, &c. i. e. calling aloud unto Men (lulled asleep by Satan in the Wilderness of Sin) and endeavouring to awaken them out of their Spiritual Lethargy, unto Repentance and Amendment of Life.

This is an Old Theam, on which the Ministers of Christ ought still to preach, as Christ himself, this his Precursor (or Forerunner) and all his Apostles did. As long as there are Sinners; as long as Sin reigns in the World, God's Servants must preach, That Men should repent. Therefore I here again insisted upon this great and important Duty of Repentance, and to that end chose this Text, which thus occurr'd to me, (as being part of the Gospel appointed for the Day) that from hence I might have an opportunity to inforce my former Arguments by some New One's, relating to this great and important Duty. Which I did, by laying before them;

The absolute Necessity of Repentance, in order to our avoiding the Misery, and obtaining the Felicity of the other World: And this I proved and preed upon them from what the Scripture tells us of a Judgment to come, that shall be most exast, strict, and impartial.

This Doctrine I illustrated by several Particulars which cannot come in here. And then I concluded these my Discourses, as I had done the other two before, with earnest Exhortations and Admonitions, suitable to the Condemned Persons; of whom (I mean those ordered for Execution) I shall now give the following Accounts, which I had from them concerning their past Sinful Lives, and present Penitential Dispositions. And,

1. Arabella Thomas , alias Isabella Jones , alias Bolton , alias Wildman , alias King , &c. She was at this time (as she had formerly been) condemn'd for Shoplifting: And this Fact, for which she is now to die, was her privately stealing 62 yards of Sarsenet, value 6 l. out of the Shop of Mr. Philip Bass , on the 27th of

November last. Her former Fact (which she committed about 2 years ago, and received Sentence of Death for, in December 1711,) was her stealing several yards of Muslin out of Mr. Warman's Shop. She said, she was about 33 years of age, born at Blackburn in Lancashire : That about 8 years since she came up to London , and was a Servant in several worthy Families, where she at first behav'd herself very honestly: But about 6 years ago falling into wicked Company, she soon learn'd to be wicked too, and committed diverse Felonies in stealing Goods out of Mercers Shops and others, in and about London and Westminster ; some of which Felonies being clearly prov'd upon her, she was burnt in the Hand for them. All this she own'd, and withal confess'd, she had led a very lewd Life, and had for these 6 years past kept Company with Richard Keele (one of her Fellow-Convicts) who was a marry'd Man, and she at the same time Wife to another. But to palliate this Crime, which I represented to her (as it really was) most enormous, she told me, That as her Husband had left her, and Keele's Wife had left her Husband, and given her Leave to live with him, she thought she might lawfully do it. In this sad Circumstance of complicated Wickedness in a double Adultery, which (by her own Confession) she was guilty of, I gave her the best Advice I could; applying the Remedy of the Gospel to her sick Soul, and endeavouring to make her sensible of this her heinous Sin, so as she might repent of it as she ought. Upon which she express'd great Sorrow, and said, She had been a wicked Sinner, and wished she had dy'd when under Condemnation before; for then she could have repented more easily: She should not have been under such hard Circumstances: She should not have abus'd so much Mercy, nor have had so many Sins to answer for, as now she had. When she was first under Sentence of Death, she obtain'd a Reprieve, which afterwards turned to a Pardon; and in June 1712, she pleaded to that Pardon, which was upon this Condition, That she should go to the Workhouse in Clerkenwel , and there be kept to hard Labour for two Years. But there being no room for her, when she was carry'd thither, they brought her back again to Newgate , where she remain'd a Prisoner till August last; at which time she pleaded to a free Pardon, and so was discharged, but not reformed; for some few Months after that, she committed the Fact which her Life must pay for.

2. Richard Keele , condemn'd for abetting and assisting Charles Houghton and William Lowther in the Murther of Edward Perry , a Servant to Mr. Bowman, Keeper of the Bridewel, or Workhouse in Clerkenwel , on the 19th of September last. He deny'd his being guilty of this horrid Fact; saying, he had no intent to do that Mischief, but so far from it, that he did what he could to prevent it: Yet acknowledged God was just in inflicting such a Punishment upon him, for he had been a Loose and Wicked Liver, though not so bad as the World had represented him. Upon this I put him in mind of his being once try'd for, and convicted of Blasphemy, and another time of a Felony; for which latter Fact, he was sent to that Workhouse, where Charles Houghton , William Lowther , with himself and others made a Riot, in which Houghton was killed upon the Spot, himself and Lowther much wounded, and Edward Perry , (mention'd before) received some mortal Wounds, of which he dy'd not long after: All which being fully proved at his Tryal, it was in vain for him now to deny it. To this he answer'd, That what I said was true as to the Fact it self, but it was not chargeable upon him, protesting that he was clear of it; because he had no such Design, as to oppose the Officers of that Prison in the discharging their Duty, tho' he thought it a heavy thing to have Irons put upon him, and be obliged to hard Labour besides. This is all the Confession I could get of him concerning this Matter. As to other Sins he felt his Conscience loaded with, he declared them to me; telling me he had been very much addicted to Swearing, Cursing, Profanation of the Lord's Day, Drinking, Whoring, &c. and that he had, for these six years pass'd, kept Company with a Woman that was not his Wife, viz. Arabella Thomas , of whom I gave an Account just now. He said, he was about 33 years of age, born at Rumney in Hampshire , and brought up at Winchester , where he learn'd the Art of making Perriwigs , and then came up to London , and kept a Perriwig-maker's Shop at Rotherhith for 6 years together: But some Difference arising between him and his Wife, they parted; and that proved the Cause of his going astray, and having to do with another Woman, and one too that had an Husband; but he did not then consider, What great Crime that was: Of which I now endeavour'd to make him sensible, by shewing him from Scripture, viz. 1 Cor. 6. 9. and other places; That as no Murderer, so no Fornicator, nor Adulterer shall inherit the Kingdom of God. To which he reply'd, How then can I be saved? This is enough to cast a Man into despair. Upon this I shew'd him, That if he truly repented, God would be so merciful to him, as to pardon all his Sins, and save his Soul. And here I gave him particular Instructions for his Encouragement to apply himself to God for Grace, that he might be deliver'd from the Wrath to come, &c.

3. William Lowther , condemn'd for the same Fact of Murder, in assisting the forenamed Richard Keele and Charles Houghton in the Commission thereof. He said, That indeed he oppos'd the Officers in that Workhouse, to which they were sent to be kept to hard Labour, when they offer'd to put him and the rest in Fetters; but intended no Mischief, so that what happen'd there, was not by his Fault; and if in the Fray and Hurry he was then in, he did hurt any Body, or did any thing which he should not have done, he was very sorry for it, and asked Pardon, which though he did not expect in this World, yet he hoped to receive it in the next; being much concern'd that he had not lived that Life, which he should have lived; and that Swearing, Drinking, Whoring, Sabbath-breaking, and the like, had been (for sometime pass'd) his common Practice, into which he was inticed by keeping bad Company when Abroad, and particularly in Newgate , where being a Prisoner for Debt about two years since, he had then so much Conversation with Felons and other Wicked

Persons there, that he easily grew worse: Yet he said, he never was a common Thief, nor ever took a Trial in his Life before September last, when (at the Sessions then held in the Old-Baily) he was convicted of two Felonies, which he would not confess himself guilty of; but could not deny, That for the smaller of them, the Court order'd he should be Whipt, and for the other, Burnt in the Hand, (together with Richard Keele concern'd in it) and both of them sent to the said Bridewell or House of Correction for 2 years; where that sad Accident happen'd, of which an Account has been given before. A sad and melancholy Thing indeed! when we consider, that as it now is, so it then was the Loss of two Men's Lives, whereof one was suddenly taken away, who having no time to call upon God for Mercy, it is to be fear'd, he dy'd in his Sins unrepented of, and if so, carry'd the Guilt of them upon his Soul into another World. From which Consideration I endeavour'd to make this Lowther and Keele sensible of God's Goodness and merciful Providence towards them, whom he had suffer'd to live longer; giving them space and time, and other Means for Repentance, which they ought duly to improve, and be thankful for. And thus I went on exhorting them to take pity of their poor immortal Souls.

The further Account I am here to give of William Lowther , is, That he told me, he was but 22 years of age, born at Whitehaven in Cumberland , and from his tender Youth brought up at Newcastle upon Tyne in Northumberland ; and, That he had used the Sea for almost these 10 years pass'd, and once was (for a little while) Master of a small Collier , (given him by his Father) trading between Newcastle and London ; and might have done well if he had kept to that honest Employment. Now he saw his Folly, and lamented his deplorable Case, who had thus by his wicked Life, brought Misery, Shame and Death upon himself in this World, and might (unless God would be graciously pleas'd to shew him Mercy) be loft to all Eternity.

4. James Boswell , condemn'd for two Burglaries, viz. the Breaking open the House of Mr. Robert Ball , and stealing from thence 100 Ells of Holland, and 104 Ells of Dowlas, on the 17th of January 1712-13; and also for Breaking open the Shop of Mr. Robert Howard , and carrying out of it 40 dozen Pair of Gloves, on the 8th of February following; Thomas Hudson being concern'd with him in this last Robbery. He said he was 22 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Andrew Holborn ; That he was brought up to no Trade, and had no Employment, saving that he us'd the Sea for a little while: That about 3 years ago he was burnt in the Hand for a Felony, and sent to Clerkenwell-Bridewell for 2 years; but staid not long there, before he made his Escape out of it, and being retaken and brought to it again, he broke out and run away a second time; and about 12 months ago, committed another Felony, for which he was again burnt in the Hand, and order'd (as before) to the same House of Correction in Clerkenwell : But there being no Room in that House for him at that time, he remain'd under Confinement in Newgate , till Andrew Harper 's Information remov'd him out of the Way of doing any further Mischief in this World. He confess'd the Facts for which he was condemned, and acknowledg'd he had what he deserved, for he had been a great Sinner.

5. Thomas Dudson , condemn'd for Breaking open the Shop of Mr. Robert Howard , and stealing Goods from thence, with the Assistance of James Goswell , beforemention'd. This Hudson said, he was 26 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Giles in the Fields ; That he had served 9 years at Sea on board the Assurance, the Switsure, the Triumph, and other Men of War, and also had been a private Sentinel for a small time in Flanders . He confess'd the Crime for which he was to die; but said, it was the first Robbery he ever committed; and at the same time acknowledg'd, That about 10 months since, being concerned in a Riot, he was sent to Newgate , where he remain'd a Prisoner under a Fine, till the forenam'd Harper's Information brought him to this dismal Death, which he own'd was but his Due, and that he deserved worse at God's Hand, whom he had greatly offended; adding, That had not this Punishment been inflicted on him, perhaps he might never have thought to repent of those common Vices of Excessive-Drinking, Swearing, Cursing, Whoring, Sabbath-breaking, &c. of which he was guilty.

6. Giles Spencer , condemn'd for two Burglaries, viz. the Breaking open the House of Mrs. Margaret Strickland and Mrs. Mary Strickland , and taking thence 7 dozen Pair of Gloves, 7 Pieces of Muslin, and other Goods to the value of 70 l. on the 17th of October 1712; and also for breaking the Shop of Mr. Henry Goddard , and taking out of it two Sattin-Gowns, and other Goods of considerable Value. He said, he was but 19 years old, born at Lamborn in Barkshire , and from 4 years of age brought up in London , where he had lived all this while, following no other Employment (Stealing excepted, as may be supposed) than Selling of Pictures, Fruit, &c. about the Streets . He confess'd, this Condemnation was just, and said, that tho' young in years, yet he was an old Offender, and had been twice burnt in the Hand. He seemed to submit patiently to his Sentence, and pray'd God to forgive him the many Sins and Offences he had committed.

7. Samuel Dicks , condemn'd for Felony and Burglary in Breaking open the House of Mr. Samuel Beddesford , and taking thence several Pieces of Plate and other Goods of great Value, on the 31st of July last. He said, he was 25 years of age, born at Hamstell in Staffordshire , where he was employ'd in making of Nails , till he came up to London about 6 years ago, and then went to Service, being a Footman to two Worthy Gentlemen alternately, with whom he discharg'd the part of a faithful and diligent Servant. But that Service (in which he had but 5 l. a year Wages) not being sufficient for him to maintain his Wife and Children, he left it, and gave two Guineas to a Chairman for teaching him his Art, hoping he should in time get more by it, than by being a Domestick-Servant: But the Chairman, with whom he

had made a Bargain, having within a short time after the Number of his Chair taken off, could ply no longer himself, and so could not teach him, nor would return his Money; which occasion'd his great Poverty, and this Poverty his committing the Fact for which he readily own'd he was justly condemned, and begg'd Pardon of God and Man.

8. James Camelion , or Crimellen , condemn'd for Felony and Burglary in Breaking open the House of Mr. Joseph Slade , and taking thence a Camlet-Coat and several other Goods, on the 10th of November last. He said, he was 22 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Paul Covent-garden ; had served on Board several of Her Majesty's Men of War , for the space of 9 years, and never was guilty of any such Fact before; but of this he was, and of many other Sins besides, which he had committed against Almighty God, through the Course of his Life, for which he was heartily sorry, and begg'd Pardon.

9. Anthony Martin , condemn'd for the same Felony and Burglary, which he own'd himself guilty of, but said, it was his first Fact. He was 25 years of age, born in St. Ann's Parish Westminster , was a Sailor , and had served for some years on Board several Men of War at diverse times. I found him all along very tractable and very penitent.

10. James Urwin , condemn'd for Breaking open the House of Mr. William Pierpoint , and taking and carrying away from thence two Cheeses, a Box of Knives and Forks, and other Things, on the 21st of October last, in the Night-time. He said, he was about 23 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Martin in the Fields , and served out his Time (an Apprentice) with a Surgeon in that Parish: That his keeping of Bad Company, and Profaning the Lord's Day, was the Original Cause of his Ruin; and that though this Fact, for which he is condemned, was the first he committed that deserved such a Death, yet he had been otherways a great Sinner.

11. Richard Latin , or Layton , condemn'd for Breaking open the Shop of Mr. John Fowler , and stealing from thence 18 dozen Pair of Gloves, and other Goods, to the value of 20 l. on the 12th of December 1712. He said, he was 20 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Giles Cripplegate , London : That he was both a Wool-Comber and a Webster by his Trade, and work'd at it for a little time with some of his Friends of the same Occupation in Essex : That Bad Company had corrupted him, and brought him to this untimely End; wishing he had been so wise as to avoid such Persons as made it their Practice to entice Men to Sin, and then bring them to Shame.

12. Sarah Bugden , alias Small , alias Jones , alias Burgis , alias Evans , condemn'd for privately stealing 4 yards and a half of Black Cloth, to the value of 3 l. out of the Shop of Mr. Robert Davenport , the 26th of November last. She said, She was 25 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Dunstan Stepney : That before she committed this Fact (which she pretended meer Poverty drove her to) she lived unblamably, and got (though a poor, yet) an honest Livelihood, being a Basket-Woman , chiefly plying in Leaden-hall , Newgate, and other Markets . She was a poor ignorant Person; yet not so ignorant neither, as not to know her Sins would sink her down to Hell, if she did not truly repent of them.

13. Mary Baker , alias Jane Cook , alias Lobby , alias Hanun , or Harnale , &c. She said, she was about 35 years of age, born of honest and wealthy Parents in the City of Salisbury , whom I will not expose by publishing here her Maiden-Name: She confess'd, That she did betimes take a vicious Life, and disobliged her Friends so, that none of them would look upon her: And this she told me, (though she would sometimes vary in her Confession) That being once a Lady's Woman , she was debauch'd by the Steward of the House, then but a young Man, whom she thought to have marry'd: But their Intrigues coming to her Lord and Lady's Ear, both the Steward and She were turn'd out of their Service; and then her Lover proved false to her, and would not marry her: That after this she marry'd two Husbands, one after another, about 2 years ago, and since that two more; all the four being now alive. As she was suspected to have more Husbands still, I asked her the Question; but she said she had no more; and that having so many as she had, was occasion'd by her several Husbands abusing her and leaving her, as soon as she was marry'd to them. Here I endeavour'd to make her sensible that she was highly guilty of the Sin of Adultery, besides other Sins she had committed before God; of all which, if she did not throughly repent, she would eternally perish. Upon this she seem'd to entertain some serious Thoughts, but withal discover'd a great deal of Uneasiness in her Mind, which visibly encreas'd after the Dead Warrant was come, and she found she was in it.

This Day they were all carry'd from Newgate (in several Carts) to the respective Places of their Execution, viz. Richard Keele and William Lowther , to Clerkenwell-Green , where they were hang'd on a Gallows erected there for that purpose; and Arabella Thomas , with the rest, to Tyburn . At both these Places I attended them successively; and discharged my Ministerial Office to their poor Souls for the last time; giving them Ghostly Admonitions and Exhortations, praying and singing some Penitential Psalms with them, and making them rehearse the Apostles Creed, as is usual on such melancholy Occasions; and finally recommending them to God's boundless Mercy and all-sufficient Grace, I withdrew from them.

As Keele and Lowther were going to speak to the People in their own Vindication I stopt 'em, telling them, 'Twas more proper for them to apply themselves to GOD, for the Pardon of their Sins, and Salvation of their Souls. And this Advice they comply'd with, earnestly praying God to shew them Mercy.

When they were dead, I proceeded on my Journey to the Place where the others (being Eleven in number) were to be executed. After I had pray'd with them, &c. they had some Time allow'd them for their private Devotions; which being ended, the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off while calling earnestly unto God to have Mercy upon them, and receive their departing Souls.

This is all the Account here to be given of all these Dying Persons, by me, PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate .

Wednesday Decemb. 23d 1713.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new sett of Cuts, adapted to several sixes of Common-prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam; engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate ; where may be had all sorts of Bibles, either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sizes; Common-prayers in Folio, for the use of Churches; Common-prayers in 8° & 12°. All neatly bound. Duty of Man's Works of all sizes; Duty of Man in Latin; Latin and Welsh Common-prayers; Tate and Brady's new Version of Psalms, with the new Supplement: Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament, Mr. Clutterbuck on the Liturgy; The Statutes at large, in 3 vol. Bp Beveridge's Sermons and private Thoughts, &c.

Books set forth by Paul Lorrain , before he was, and since he is Ordinary of Newgate .

A Guide to Salvation; or, the Way to Eternal Bliss. Sold by William Meadows near the Royal Exchange in Cornhill . The last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse : And, the dying Man's Assistant. Both printed for, and sold by John Lawrence at the Angel in the Poultry . Moral and Divine Maxims. Minutius Felix; or, a Vindication of Christianity against Paganism. Funeral Rites of all Nations. A Discourse of Christianity, with the Character of a true Christian. A Sermon preach'd upon an especial Occasion, and dedicated to the Lord High-Treasurer of Great Britain. Publish'd by John Morphew near Stationers-hall , London .

DR. Tipping's Original Famous Liquor for dissolving the Stone in the Bladder or Kidneys, bringing away visibly whatever Gravel may be generated in those Parts. Likewise gives immediate ease in the most inveterate Pains of the Cholick, Gout, and Rheumatism; and soon after restores the use of Limbs. Is truly and faithfully prepar'd, and sold by Matthew Clarke , Apothecary in Little-Britain , near West-Smithfield , London .

N.B. All those that are desirous of selling this excellent Liquor, by applying themselves to the said Matthew Clarke , shall find all fitting Encouragement.

The Mysteries of Virginity; or, a full Discovery of the Difference between young Maids and old Ones: Set forth in several diverting Dialogues of the Female Sex, on Love and Gallantry, Marriage and a single Life, Dress and Behaviour, Batchelors and Husbands, Beauty & Courtship, Plays and Musick. With many other curious Subjects relating to young Women not enter'd into the State of Matrimony. Sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-hall, and A. Dod without Temple-bar.

Just publish'd in a Pocket Volume.

The History of the Lives of the most noted highwaymen, Footpads, housebreakers, shoplifters, &c. of both Sexes in and about London, and other parts of Great Britain, for above fifty Years last past; wherein the Secret History of their several Robberies, Thefts, Cheats, and Murthers, is collected by Capt . Alexander Smith . And on Saturday next will be publish'd the Second Volume,

Which compleats the History to this present Time.

Just Publish'd the 8th Edition of

THE Whiggs Unmask'd; being the Secret History of the Calves-head-Club, containing all their Treasonable Songs at their King-killing Clubs. Adorn'd with new Cuts. Much enlarg'd by a genuine Account of all the Plots and Cabals of the Whiggish Faction, against the Queen and Ministry, to this present Time, never before Printed, &c. Sold by John Morphew , near Stationers-hall . Where may be had Sir William Cavendish 's Memoirs of Cardinal Woolsey, containing all his Negociations and Treaties of Peace betwixt England and France. The Memoirs of Robert Earl of Leicester, Prime Minister and Favourite of Queen Elizabeth.

This Day will be publish'd the 4th Edition of

The Works of Petronious Arbiter, translated by several eminent Hands, with a Key by a Person of Quality; and his Life and Character, by Mons. St. Evremont; to which is added, some other of the Roman Poets, viz. Catullus Tibullus, and Propertius; and select Translations from the Greek of Pindar, Anachreon, and Sappho; by several Hands. A Poem on Telemachus, by the Duke of Devonshire; and an Essay on Poetry, by John Duke of Buckingham, adorn'd with cuts. Printed for Sam. Briscoe , and sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-hall: Where may be had the Works of Longinus, translated from the Greek by John Digby , Esq ; And the fourth and last Volume of the Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , which compleats his whole Works. NB. Such Gentlemen that will make up Setts of that Author, must send speedily thither; for after Twelfth-Day none will be sold but in Setts.

The Weekly Packet; or, a Collection of the News foreign and domestick for a whole Week; done in a concise and new Method, and also containing several Treatises in Learning and Trade, with the prizes Current of the most useful Commodities; having met with great Encouragement, is continu'd to be publish'd every Saturday Morning. Printed for H. Meere in Blackfryers, J. Baker in Pater-noster-row, A. Dod at the Peacock without Temple-bar, J. Graves in St. James's-Street, and E. Place at Furnivals-Inn-Gate in Holborn: Price three half-pence. N.B. 'Tis done on a good Paper, and contriv'd so as to write on, and go as a single Letter by the Post.

London printed, and are to be sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

