THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Wednesday the 20th of March, 1716/1717.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 27th and 28th of February, and the 1st and 2d of March, 1716/1717, 28 Persons, viz. 3 Men and 5 Women, who were Try'd for, and Convicted of, Murder and other Capital Crimes, did accordingly receive Sentence of Death: But 4 of the Women being found pregnant, and 8 of the Men having obtain'd a Gracious Reprieve (which Mercy I pray they may have Grace to improve) 14 Men and One Woman are order'd for Execution now, and Joseph Still alias Cotterel , upon Friday next, at Standford-Hill .

While under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, who being (twice every Day) brought up to the Chapel in Newgate, where (after Prayers and the Word of GOD first read) they were chiefly taught (from the Scripture) the Doctrine of Faith and Repentance, and earnestly exhorted continually to exert themselves therein, as the Great Things that could beget them an Interest in CHRIST, and by which (thro' his alone Merits) Sinners may obtain Salvation.

What SERMONS I then preach'd to them, I shall give an account of in my Paper of Joseph Still alias Cotterel (or rather Cockerel , nick-nam'd Robin Chicken) condemn'd for the Murder by him committed on the Body of John Green , at Newington in Middlesex .

The Accounts they respectively gave me of themselves, are as follow, viz.

1. John Tomkins , condemn'd for the Murder by him committed on the Body of his Fellow- Servant Catherine Spooner , a Cook-maid in the Family of the Honourable Colonel Clayton, on the 26th of January last. He said, he was 37 Years of age, born at Malpass in Cheshire , was brought up to no Trade, but only was a Servant to Gentlemen from his Youth, and actually in Service when he committed the bloody Fact he is now to die for. He declar'd himself to be of the Popish Religion , and declin'd the receiving any Instructions from me; nevertheless I

press'd him to consider the Heinousness of his Crime, and excite himself to the highest degree of Repentance possible, both for it, and all other the Sins he was Guilty of, which (tho' he would make no Confession of them) I might well suppose, were not a few. To all this he answer'd, That he must needs say he was a common Sinner, and was sorry for it, and particularly for this Murder, which he at first did not think his Passion would have carry'd him so far as to commit. But as for making any further Confession, he desir'd not to be put upon it, nor to have any thing offer'd to him contrary to his own Principles; for as he was brought up, and always had lived a Member of the Church of Rome, so he resolv'd to die in that Communion.

2. John Sweethones , condemn'd for robbing Mr. John Mims , and taking from him a Hat and a Key, on the 22d of December last. He said, he was 20 years of age, born at Acton in Middlesex ; served his Apprentiship with a Bricklayer there; came up to London about 12 months ago, and here wrought at his Trade. He at first deny'd the Fact he was condemn'd for; but afterwards own'd it; adding, that he had been a loose Liver, a Drunkard, a Sabbath-breaker, &c. for which he ask'd GOD's Pardon, and wish'd he had not so much offended. Upon my further pressing him to confess the Facts of Burglary and Murder, which he was indicted for, and (no doubt) guilty of, though acquitted for want of sufficient Evidence; he answer'd, Why do you ask me such a Question? Why should you suppose me to have committed those Facts, when I was clear'd of 'em? To which I reply'd, 'Tis well if your Conscience clears you: Look ye to it: For I must plainly tell you, you're in a miserable Condition, if (being guilty of such Facts) you do not particularly own them, and repent of them.

3. John Keys , condemn'd for assaulting Mrs. Frances Money , and forcibly taking away her Pocket, &c. on the 5th of February last. He said, he was 19 years of age, born in the Parish of Newington-Buts ; That he had been brought up to the Sea , and for these 7 Years past serv'd on board the Nonsuch, the Adventure, the Dreadnought, the Rye-gally, and other Men of War alternately. That he never was guilty of any Crime, and was innocent particularly of this he stood condemn'd for.

4. Abel Ball , condemn'd for stealing 2 Handkerchiefs from Mrs. Mary Pomfret , on the 28th of January last. He said, he was 25 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Saviour , Southwark : That he had served 12 Years at Sea, off and on; first as a Servant to a Captain , and then as a Sailor , sometimes in Merchant-men, and at other times on board Men of War; the last whereof, in which he serv'd, was the Gosport, a 4th Rate. He confess'd he was guilty of the Fact he stood condemn'd for, and also had committed some suchlike Facts before, within thse last 12 Months; but never went higher in his Robberies than picking of People's Pockets, as he found his Opportunity for it; adding, That he had not driven this wicked Trade very long, nor would ever have been engag'd in it, had he not follow'd and been entic'd by the bad Company he kept: The Folly and ill Consequence of which he now was sensible of, and sorry for.

5. John Giles , found guilty upon two Indictments, viz. first, for breaking into the Shop of Mr. Thomas Freeman , and taking thence a Perruque, value 6 l. on the 9th of October 1714; and secondly, for doing the like in the Shop of Mr. Matthew Biner , stealing thence a Perruque, value Thirty-five Shillings. The latter of these two Facts he deny'd, and the former he confess'd he was guilty of: And also acknowledg'd, That he had been an Offender before, and that about 2 Years ago he was whipt for a Felony he then committed. He said, he was about 20 years of age, born in Worcestershire (but the particular Place he knew not:) That he had been above 12 Years in and about London ; and that at first he work'd with his Father, a Staymaker , and afterwards went into the Service, and was 2 1/2 Years in the Second Regiment of Foot Guards . He was attentive to Exhortation, and seem'd to be Penitent.

6. William Clarke , condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mr. Lawrence Andrews , and stealing thence 6 Callicoe Gowns, 2 Stuff Gowns, and diverse other Goods, on the 14th of June 1715. He said, he was about 20 years of age, born in Well-Close in Stepney-Parish : That he was brought up to no Trade, nor to any manner of Learning: That he could not read; but was ordinarily employ'd in crying News about the Streets , and sometimes in serving People at the Markets, in carrying Things for them . He confess'd, That he had been an Offender formerly (tho' he deny'd his being so now) and, That he was burnt in the Hand about 18 Months ago, and then sent to the Bridewell in Clarkenwell for 2 Years, and had not been there above one, when he was fetcht out, and brought to Newgate upon the account of the Fact he is now to die for, which (after his long obstinate Denial of it) he at last own'd, and ask'd Pardon for, praying GOD to be merciful to him, a great and miserable Sinner.

7. Matthew Adcock , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mrs. Anne Batchelor , and taking thence 9 pair of Flaxen Sheets, and other Goods, on the 2d of January last. He said, he was 20 years of age, born at Chipping-Norton in Oxfordshire : That when about 14 Years old he came up to London , and was bound Apprentice to a Perriwig-maker , and had serv'd 5 Years of his Time when this Calamity fell upon him, which he own'd he had deserv'd; freely confessing that he was guilty of the Fact he stood condemn'd for, and had been engag'd above 3 Months in this wicked Course of Life, into which he was deluded by the bad Company he kept. He now appear'd to be serious, and sorry for what he had done amiss, praying GOD to forgive him.

8. Edward Elton , condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mr. Joseph Spurling , and stealing thence some Wearing-Apparel, Linnen, and other Goods, on the 16th of June last. He said, he was 16 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Andrew, Holborn ; bound Apprentice to an Uncle of his, a Silver Buckle-maker , and was 5 Years with him. He declar'd, That tho' he had not liv'd so well as he should have done, yet he never did commit the Crime he was accus'd of, and condemn'd for, nor ever was before a Justice e'er this time, neither deserv'd Punishment by the

Laws of Man. But for all this his Pretence of Innocence, he at last confess'd he was guilty of this Burglary, and had now his just Reward for it.

9. John Brush , condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mr. Michael Grimshaw at Islington , and stealing thence four Brass Porridge-pots, some Pewter Dishes and Plates, with other Goods, on the 1st of December last. He said, he was 24 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Giles in the Fields ; a Button-maker : That while his Father was alive he work'd with him at that Trade, and since did so with his Mother: But falling into the Company of wicked People about 2 Years ago, was deluded by them, and did commit some ill Facts with them, but none so heinous as this he stood condemn'd for; which he freely confess'd, and pray'd GOD to forgive it, and all other the wicked Deeds of his past sinful Life; being sorry he had wrong'd honest Persons, and was not able to make them Amends for the Injuries he had done them, otherwise than begging (as he did) their Pardon.

10. William Stone , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mr. Nathanael Saltonstal , and stealing thence a Silver Tankard, and other Goods, on the 2d of May last. He said, he was 17 Years of age, born in St. Sepulchre's Parish : That he was bound Apprentice first to a Chimney-sweeper , and then to a Joyner , with neither of whom he serv'd out his Time, but went to Sea . He obstinately deny'd the Fact he stood condemn'd for, and would fain have made me believe that he was a very innocent Person: But when I told him, I knew him to be an Old Offender, and that he once receiv'd Sentence of Death at Kingston upon Thames , for a Burglary by him committed in Southwark , he (though with much reluctancy at first) did at last acknowledge that to be true; but still deny'd the Fact he now stood condemn'd for.

11. Richard Chapman , condemn'd for being concern'd with the said William Stone in the Burglary and Robbery committed in the House of Mr. Saltonstal aforemention'd. He said, he was 21 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Dunstan Stepney : That he first learned the Art of a Wine-cooper with a Vintner , to whom he was then bound Apprentice, and with whom he liv'd but a little while: Afterwards being bound to a Butcher in White-Chapel , and having serv'd five Years with him, and bought off the two remaining Years, he became his own Master. He (like his Companion Stone) behav'd himself in such a manner, as shew'd him to be a hardned Sinner, and obstinately deny'd the Fact he was now condemn'd for, and would not at first, though he was forced at last to own, his being Guilty of some Felonies of which he formerly was convicted, and for which he had receiv'd condign Punishment.

12. John White , condemn'd for a Burglary, viz. for breaking the House of a Sword-cutler in the Pall-mall , and taking from thence a great quantity of Swords. He said, he was 21 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Mary White-Chapel : That he was put out Apprentice to a Perriwig-maker then living in York-buildings , and now near Charing-cross : That he did not serve above 4 Years of his Time, but went from his Master, and for a while wrought for himself: That

being then at his own Discretion, his corrupt Nature soon prompted him to follow ill Courses. And here he confess'd, that he had been a great Sinner, and committed some ill Facts before, but not so criminal as this he was now condemn'd for, and which he freely and readily own'd himself guilty of. I told him, that (in order to the clearing of his Conscience and perfecting his Repentance, whereof he gave me sensible Marks) he must beg Pardon of the Persons he had any ways wrong'd, and make them Satisfaction to the utmost of his Power; and, to prevent the suspecting any innocent Persons of the Facts he had secretly committed, he ought to discover them to those he had thus injur'd: Which he promised me he would do, and some time after told me he had done.

13. Arnold Powel , condemn'd for breaking a House in Hatton-Garden , and stealing from thence Petticoats and other Wearing-Apparel, &c. He said, he was 30 Years of age, born in Worcestershire , but in what Parish he could not tell, as having been when very young brought up to London , and liv'd all the while with his Father in Southwark , with whom he learnt the Art of Perriwig making , which he follow'd till he was enticed into Evil Courses. He confess'd he was guilty of the Fact he stood condemn'd for; and, That he had committed some Felonies before, for which he was burnt in the Hand and sent to the Bridewell at Clerkenwell for a Twelvemonth, where he fulfilled his Time about Two Years ago; but when discharg'd thence, instead of taking care to avoid bad Company, and the commission of wicked Facts, he presently return'd to his old ill Course of Life. He seem'd to be sensible both of his Sins and of the Punishment he deserv'd for them, and pray'd GOD to forgive him.

14. Samuel Sherman , alias Lawson , alias Falstone , or rather Foulstone (which last, he told me, was his right Name) condemn'd for stealing 5 Silver-Spoons out of Mr. John Smith 's House in the Parish of St. John Wapping , on the First of February last. He said, he was 19 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Paul, Shadwell : That first he was bound to a Weaver in Spittle fields , and then serv'd a Waterman , who carried him to Sea in a Yacht belonging to the Customhouse, of which that Waterman was the Master, and used to carry Goods and Passengers in it. Afterwards his Father, a Bricklayer, to whom he was bound Apprentice, and with whom he had learnt something of that Trade, turned him over to another Bricklayer , who could not keep him long; for, after a short stay there, he left him, as he had undutifully done his former Masters; and this (he said) was about three Years since, from which time to this, he either lay under Confinement in Newgate (as he did about a Twelvemonth ago, for breaking the House of Mr. Christopher Bryan , and taking thence a Bundle of Wearing Apparel, on the Fourteenth of February, 1715/1716) or else was Thieving up and down, and leading a very lewd and vicious Life. All this he now confess'd, and (when put in mind of it) acknowledg'd also his having pleaded His Most Gracious MAJESTY'S Free Pardon at the Old-Baily, on Thursday the 20th of December last, and abused that Mercy; and therefore justly deserv'd the Punishment he was to suffer for the Fact that had brought him under this second Sentence of Death; which tho' he would not at first, yet did at last plainly own he had committed, and heartily repented for, as he did for all other his Sins.

15. Elizabeth Brown (who formerly went by her Maiden Name Turner ) condemn'd for picking the Pocket, first, of Mr. Philip Jones , on the 17th of February last; and, secondly, of Mr. Thomas Appleby , at the same time, it being her constant Practice to pick Pockets in Churches. She said, she was about 40 Years of age, born in Fleetstreet , in the Parish of St. Bridget , London : That in her younger Years she learnt to wash Hoods , Point-Lace , &c. but did not much follow that Business, being otherwise employ'd in looking after her Father's House till she was married. She confess'd the Facts for which she was condemned, and likewise two others which she was try'd for, but for want of sufficient Proof acquitted of; and further acknowledg'd, That for some Felonies she had formerly committed, she was twice burnt in the Cheek; after that, was of late burnt in the Hand, and sent to the Bridewell in Clerkenwell , there to be kept (as she was) to hard Labour for a Twelvemonth: That her ill Life, and keeping bad Company, oblig'd her Husband (a Silk-weaver, and an honest Man) to leave her; and so being destitute of a Maintenance, more and more pursu'd her wicked Courses, and thereby brought herself at last to this miserable State. She seem'd to be sensible of her Sins, and of the Punishment she deserv'd for them, not only in this World, but in the next, if GOD (whose Pity she implor'd) was not most merciful to her: She ask'd Pardon of Him with great earnestness, as also of her Husband, and of all the Persons she had offended and injur'd.

As they were just going to be turn'd off, John Sweetbones , who for some particular Reason (it seems) had own'd before, now deny'd his being guilty of the Fact he was condemn'd and to die for: And as to the other Two Facts of Burglary and Murder, he was severally Try'd for, and acquitted of, tho' suppos'd he had committed, he here persisted in his Denial of them. William Stone and Richard Chapman in like manner persisted in their Denial of the Fact for which they stood condemn'd, though they acknowledg'd the Justice of GOD in thus punishing them, for they had been great Offenders in other respects; and Stone particularly declar'd, That about 4 Years ago he broke Mr. Freeman's Shop in Hatton-garden , and thence took a Perriwig. John Giles disown'd the robbing Mr. Biner's Shop at the time mention'd by the Evidence, but he said two more (one of whom was hang'd for another Fact he committed since, and the other lately transported) had done that some time before. The rest did neither alter in, nor add any thing to, their Confessions before set down.

This Day they were carry'd from Newgate (in 5 Carts) to the Place of Execution, where I did for the last time earnestly exhort them to consider well what had brought them to this shameful and untimely End, and sue for Grace, that they might truly repent, and be deliver'd from Blood-guiltiness, and from the Guilt of all other their Sins. To this purpose I pray'd for them; sung some Penitential Psalms with them; made them rehearse the Apostles Creed; and after I had finally implor'd GOD's Mercy and the Assistance of his Holy Spirit to them, for their full Conversion and Eternal Salvation, I withdrew, leaving them to their private Devotions, for which they had some Time allotted them. Then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, all the while calling upon GOD to have Mercy on their departing Souls.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Malefactors, by me

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Wednesday, March 20. 1716-17

NB. Joseph Still alias Cotterel is to be executed on Friday next, at Standford-Hill , and his Behaviour, &c. will be publish'd the Day following.

Just Publish'd,

THE Danger and Folly of Evil Courses: Being a Practical Discourse, shewing the Base and Vile Nature of Sin, and the dreadful Consequences of it, as well in this World, as that which is to come. With such Effectual Remedies as (if rightly apply'd) will prevent it; and bring Men to a true Love of God and Religion. Partly extracted from the Writings of Archbp Tillotson, Archbp Sharpe, Bp Taylor, Bp Stillingsleet, Bp Patrick, Dr. Scott, Dr. Horneck, Dr. Lucas, Dr. Sherlock, Dr. Stanhope, Mr. Kettlewell, Judge Hale, &c. The Third Edition, with large Additions: By Francis Hewardine , A. M. Sold by Jonas Brown at the Black Swan without Temple-bar . Price 1 s. 6 d. or 15 s. a dozen. Where may be had the Second Edition, corrected, of the True Doctrine and Practice of Christian Piety, being an Explanation of the Commandments, Creed, Lord's Prayer, and Sacraments, according to the Church of England. To which is added, Meditations and Prayers, recommended for the Use of Charity-Schools, by Robert Nelson , Esq ; price 1 s. 6 d. Also Directions for the Practice of a Christian in all Points of his Religion; which may serve as a Solution to most Cases of Conscience.

London Printed, and Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall.

