THE Ordinary of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT Of the Behaviour, Confessions, and last dying Words of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 9th, of November, 1722.

THE King's Commission of the Peace and Oyer and Terminer, being Held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bayly, on the 10th, 11th and 12th of October last; before the Right Honourable Sir William Stewart , Knt . late Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice Pratt, the Honourable Mr. Justice Tracey, and Mr. Baron Price, and John Raby , Deputy, Esq ; Recorder ; besides several of His Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the City of London, and County of Middlesex: Four Men were then found Guilty of Capital Offences; viz. William Mar ; John Quin ; Samuel Molton , and Thomas Williams . The two last, whereof receiving His Majesty's Gracious Reprieve, in order to their being Transported; the two former remained for Execution.

While they lay under the Sentence of Death, no one had any Interruption in the Performance of his Duty, except John Quin , who who was Lighted-headed for the greatest Part of the time that he remain'd in that sad Estate; which prevented his improving in the Knowledge of his Religion, or performing the Great and important Work for his Soul, which lay upon him to perform; tho' I was assur'd that especially Thomas Williams , (whose Father had very carefully grounded him in the Knowledge of the Principles of his Religion) was extreamly willing and ready to Read to and Pray by him, in the Condemn'd-Hold; he seeming to take a particular Pleasure and Satisfaction in those Performances, and having much Heart and a Spirit in his Misfortunes, till he received the Tidings, that his Father was dead with Grief for his deplorable Condition, and also that his Mother was like to be Distracted and to meet with the same sad Fate; but being inform'd that his Father having been to see him under Condemnation, at four of the Clock, dyed with the vast concern of it, at six; it seem'd to make a much deeper Impression upon him, than the Prospect of Death had ever

made: However, it cannot be said that he at any time neglected the Performance of his Duty; nor did John Quin refuse any Instructions, when he was in any Condition to receive them; but told me as the World had forsaken him, he would endeavour to forsake the World; and would recollect himself, if his ill state of Health would permit him to do it) what great and crying Sin he had committed in any former Part of his Life, which had now call'd down this heavy Judgment of God upon him, and would unite in employing God's Pardon for it.

Upon the Day preceeding their Exit out of this World, I endeavour'd to Instruct these unhappy Men, from the following Text of Scripture,

Be ye not as the Horse, or as the Mule, &c.

Psalm 32. v. 9th; or the more antient Translation has it in the Book of Common-Prayer,

Be ye not like to Horse and Mule, which have no Understanding; whose Mouths must be held with Bit and Bridle, lest they fall upon thee. Great Plagues remain for the ungoldy.

From those Words of the Psalmist, we took occasion to consider,

FIRST, Those Men who are of so savage and bruital a Disposition, as not to comply with the Dictates of Reason, the Consideration of Society, the Order and Frame of the World, &c. but oblig'd their Superiours to use them like Horses and Mules, to restrain them by Bridles and Fetters, lest they should fall on and dispoil their Neighbours, throw down all Unity and Friendship, and overturn the Foundations of Civil-Society.

SECONDLY, We advis'd the Persons to suffer Death, to lay aside all savageness of Disposition, and, as the Scripture Phrases it, to become as near as possible to New-born Bades; from the Consideration of their not being form'd like the Beasts that perish, but with Understanding, with Minds that must tell them, that they act degenerately from their Nature; so that they who are resolv'd to prey on those they meet in the Night, and to despoil their Fellow Creatures; had better have been form'd like Wolves or Tigers; for then they had acted but agreeably to their Natures, nor been troubled with an uneasy Understanding sometimes to accuse them.

THIRDLY, We advised them, not to be like the Horses and Mules, in endeavouring by Force and Violence, not by proper Methods, to extricate themselves from their Misfortunes. For those who had attempted to Break lose from the Place of confinement, by sheding Blood, had all the Guilt of that Blood upon them, that they intended to shed: Nor was the Absurdity of such an Endeavour greater than the impiety, it being wholly out of their Power to put such a Resolution in Practice, and it must terminate in the mediate Misery of their Bodies as well as extream Hazard of their Souls.

FOURTHLY, We advis'd them to this Patience, and this Resignation to the Divine Will, from that particular Passage in the Text, Great Plagues remain for the Ungodly; Punishment is but the natural Consequence of Ungodliness; Plagues are what Sinners seek; My Son, if Sinners intice thee, consent thou not, &c. They lay wait for their own Blood, they lurk privily for their own Lives. And if ill Men have brought Plagues upon themselves, they should blame none but themselves; should not have Malice against their Accusers; or I'll-will towards those who put the Laws in Execution against them.

LASTLY, We endeavoured to enforce it upon them, That, tho' they had most severely found, that Great Plagues and Punishments waited the ungodly in this World, 'twou'd be wholly owing to their own Indulence, if they did not escape the Plagues that waited the ungodly in the Worldy to come; for that there was Mercy for condemn'd Malfactors at the Throne of God; and as they had been allowed Time and Opportunity for Repentance, if they had not sincerely pursued those Instructions given them at different Times, they could have no Excuse for their impieties, but must own, That their Damnation was just.

During the Time of this, the Persons in Misfortunes seem'd very seriously to attend to the Instructions given them; nor did I ever observe what John Quin , a little before his Death, complain'd to me of, viz. That the Prisoners repriev'd laugh'd at those appointed for Death; in the Chappel: after the Warrant for Execution was carry'd to the Prisoners, and themselves included in it, very contrary to their Thoughts and Expectations. Williams appear'd without Concern, as if he had long before given up all Thought of this World, and had nothing to do in it: Yet this Resentment was not gone: For, being ask'd by me, two Days before his Death, in the Chapel, how he could retain such Malice, as to say He wish'd he could talk with a certain Person, for that he would draw out a Knife from his Coat and stab him? He reply'd, That if that Man was that Moment there, He would stab him to the Heart. Upon my asking why all that ill Will, when he was so near his Death? He answer'd, That Man has been the Ruin of my Body, if not my Soul: If I have told you of my Crimes, and Confess this, for which I am now to die; but some time ago, when I was going on Board a Ship, that I might leave my bad Company, and resolv'd to live honestly, That Man sent for me for my former Crimes, and put me into New-Prison, where I lay many Months, on suspicion, for he could make out nothing against me, and I was set at Liberty, but then I had no Opportunity of going on Board any Ship, nor would my Friends fit me out again a second time with Cloaths, and all Necessaries as they had done before: But as he is the Cause of my Ruin, and is my Murderer, I would gladly pay him Home, only to hinder his ruining others, as he has me, and to make this his last Time, &c.

The Violent Malice and the odd Resentment with which he utter'd those Expressions, and many more, appeard very surprizing to others then in the Chappel, as well as to me; that he should be able to conceal so much Passion and Ill-will so long, till he saw all Hopes of Life were gone: Conceal'd, tho' he had often declar'd, he bore no Man any Grudge, but could freely dye without Resentment.

I endeavour'd, as I was able, to convince him of the Vileness and Baseness of his Temper: that could harbour so much Malice, yet daily Pray that God would forgive him his Trespasses, as he forgave those that trespass'd against him; altho' here was no Trespass against him: What was done, having been acted, I did suppose, with a good Intent, to promote Justice, to quell Robbery, and to put the Laws in due Execution. &c.

But I perceiv'd that his Rancour and Ill-will, lay not only against the above-mention'd Person, but also against one Casey, (executed last Execution). Casey (he said also in the Chappel) put him into his Information, designing to hang him; but God was above the Devil, and he luckily liv'd to see Casey hang'd before him.

After I had heard the Whole he had to say, I read those Texts of Scripture which relate to the forgiving our Brethren's Trespasses, &c. supposing they had injur'd us, and endeavour'd to apply them to him. John Quin express'd himself, that it was a sad Sight to him, to see his Companion in such heats of Passion, just before he was to dye. Quin appear'd to make a very earnest Preparation for the Reception of the Sacrament, by informing himself in the Nature of it, and by taking special Notice of all those Passages in the sacred Pages, which relate thereto. And he assur'd me, that when he was not capable of performing his Duty, by reason of his Indisposition, he beg'd of some other, in that miserable Place, to read and pray by him all Night.

WILLIAM MAR , of St. Margaret's Westminster , was condemn'd for Assaulting Michael Paxton , about eight of the Clock at Night, between the Horse Guards and Admiralty-Office , throwing him down on the Ground, and taking from him a Hat, value 5 s. and a Cane value 5s. on the 21st Day of September last. He was also found guilty of stealing a laced Hat, value 4s. from the Shop of Mary Sedgwick , the same Night; which Hat, she found at the Guard-house, and which the Prisoner owned before the Constable he told her of, about seven o'Clock at Night.

This Prisoner said he was not twenty Years of Age; That having an Uncle of considerable Substance, who Traded for many Years to India, China, and Persia, that gave him, when very Poor, and not in a Condition to set him up credibly in the World. He believed he might by the Interest of his Uncle have easily attain'd to the Place of Factor, or the like beyond Sea; but his Uncle discouraged him from those Thoughts, by representing to him, That he had not been the best of Boys, but had let appear very young a kind of Disposition to Vice, by telling Lyes, abusing other Lads, &c. And that the Sea would encourage those Ill-Inclinations, and might perhaps be his utter Ruin; adding, that nothing could alter his Mind, and turn the unto-ward Boy into a sober Man; but his being placed, when very young, in a regular and orderly Family.

Accordingly, he said, his Uncle bound him Apprentice to a Goldsmith in Wapping ; where at first he was us'd very well, but not so afterwards; this he believ'd was owing to his Quarreling with, and beating several Mens Sons and Servants in the Neighbourhood; and also to his being too familar with a certain Person in the Family, which was discover'd to his Master; for after that, he said, he scarce had Necessaries to keep him alive; so that he did not serve his whole time, but went to Sea, as a common Sailer , as he could; was several times at the Sea-port Towns of France ; was in the Mideteranean , against Messina , and in several Sea-ports in Scily , &c. He said, he supposed it was because he was a large hardy Boy, who could endure any Labours, or Dangers, that every Captain that saw him was very ready and desirous to receive him on Board the Ship; for he said he could stand on Deck the very sharpest Weather, his Wastcoat unbutton'd, his Body bare, and without Stockings or Shoes; I ask'd him if he was able to keep himself perfectly honestly at Sea? He answer'd, That he had sometimes taken odd things from the Sailers; but was never discover'd to the Captain but once, and that he did not take notice of it, for that he had just before done Duty that none of the Sailers could do so well as him

self, and which Hardiness, he said, the Officers always Commended and Encourag'd in the Sailers.

If what he said was true, it is not a Year since he left the Sea-Service; 'and he might indeed commit all his Robberies in that time, if we consider how great a Number he oft-times committed one in the Night.

As it may perhaps be to the Satisfaction of some who have been injur'd, if not to their Advantage; I shall now set down some of his Performances; as he told them to me, and as well as my Memory can retain them.

It was about 9 Months ago, the Roads bad, and in the Night time, (but he remember'd not the particular Day not of this, nor of any other Robberies) That he bad a Hackney Coach stand, behind Buckingham House ; there was a Gentleman and Lady in the Coach; the Gentleman he commanded to come into the Road to him out of the Coach, upon which, the Lady very briskly told him, tho' he was a Gentleman of the Road, she knew the Way of the Town as well as he, for he knew little of the Town to attack such as she, she said, and her Friend were; upon this, (he told me) he thrust up his Pistol, and swore he'd thrust it in her Face and bolt out her Eyes, which made the Gentleman immediately get out of the Coach, whom he robb'd of 10 l. in Money, or thereabouts; a Watch, Ring, and other things: But as to the Gentlewoman, he only felt about her Pockets, and finding no Watch about her, nor any Rings on her Fingers; he let her escape, (as he look'd upon her to be a Lady of Pleasure, he said) and neither took any thing from her, nor any way misus'd her.

The same Night he said, he robb'd a Gentleman, about 12 o'Clock, between the 2 Gates, over against the Cock-pit, White-Hall ; whom he thrust in at a Gate of the Privy Garden, and there robb'd him, but to no great value, and then thrust him out again, and clap'd too the Gate; leaving him to cry out Thieves! Rogues! I am robb'd! while he ran away round thro' Kings-street, and return'd close by the Man he had robb'd, and saw two Centinals and a Soldier, and a great Mob gather'd about him, over whose Shoulders he just peep'd over, and so proceeded along unobserv'd.

The following Night, he robb'd a Person a Foot, about 9 o'Clock, by the Meuse, of a Hat, a Wig, and a little Money. After which, meeting of his Companions, they inform'd him, that certain Ladies of Honour (as they had learn'd from their Footmen) were to go that Night from Kensington to St. James's : Wherefore they made all hast to the Road, near Pickadilly ; and after waiting there for several Hours, they saw the Coaches that carried those Ladies, cross over the Road, and go out of one Park into another, which wholy prevented their Scheme.

He then, he said, left them, and went toward St. Martin's-Lane , where he robb'd a Gentleman of about 30 s. in Money; some Publick-Houses being near, he said a great Number of People pursu'd him tho' 'twas late, but only five of them could keep near him; he said he took a Court in St. Martin's-Lane; but there being no Passage thro' he turn'd full upon his Pursuers, and presenting a Pistol in each hand to the Crowd; but receiving a Blow with a large Stick on his Left Arm, he was disabled and drop'd his Pistol, which falling on the Ground, went off; upon which, he himself fir'd the other, and the People all ran away, and he got off clear.

Two or three Nights after, being with Casey the Soldier, and a certain Man besides, by the side of a dead Wall, near White-Hall , Mar spyed a Man coming up toward them, and told his Companions, if he lik'd the look of the Man they should rob him; but Cases, without taking any Notice, knock'd him down, but Mar being vext, saying, Am not I capable of Robbing without Mrthering? &c. and thereupon went from them.

He added farther, That he was once unjustly put into (I think) New-prison , because a Cane was found upon him; which, he said, Casey, senior, meetting

him one Day, and eeing him well in Habit, desired him to keep the Cane for him, for it would look better in the Hand of Mar, than in his. He said too, He was served in the same manner, on Account of an House that was broke open, in Tyburn Road, and a Garland of Plate stoln thence; after two or three Sessions, he was clear'd of the Suspicion that lay against him. He added, That he knew who committed that Robbery, but would never discover them.

Before he dy'd, he promis'd he would take great Care to make his Peace with God, which I hope he perform'd, and is gone (agreeebly thereto) to eternal Happiness.

JOHN QUIN , Was found guilty of assaulting Rebecca Carter , in Oxendon-Street , about Seven at Night, on the 4th of October last, and robbing her of a Pocket and 3 s. in Money; by knocking her down, and snatching her Pocket.

He said, That next June, he should be 18 Years of Age; born in Ireland, eight Miles from Dublin : His Father a Dairy-Man, while he liv'd took care of his Education; after which, his Mother put him Aprentice to a Taylor , but he being used to Home, would not stay, but run Home. His Mother, he said, then put him Apprentice to another Man of the same Trade, but he long'd to be at Home, and lay out in the Streets all Night, that his Mother might send to seek him, and take him Home; which she soon did, lest any Accident should happen to him in the Night Time. She was then about to bind him to another Trade, but died in the mean time. But tho' she left 60 l. the Neighbours gave him but 7 l. but offer'd to let him live among them, as long as he would. But after he had continued there a Time, he was weary of so Living; and receiving some Letters from his Brother, a Soldier in England, he resolved to go and seek for him. Soon after, meeting with a Company of Pensioners belonging to Chelsea Colledge, who were going for England, he joyned them, and came over; but Fate directed him to Oxford , and he liv'd there, where he look'd after the Hackney Horses of the Buttler of Queen's Colledge , during the Space of (I think) two Years.

From thence, coming to London, he had no way to Live, but by serving the Builders of New Houses , which he did, when he fell into his Misfortunes.

He deny'd that he had ever been guilty of ill Practices; but said, after considering all he could, he could think of nothing that could call down God's Judgments upon him, unless it was Vexing his deceased Mother, for she laid to Heart his Undutifulness, in not staying where she placed him, but terrifying her by runningaway, and lying all Night in the Streets, and the like. Tho', he added, That all the Neighbours were of Opinion, that his Mother's Heart was broken, by his Sisters living with a Person of Quality, contrary to her Will; nor upon her sending for her, would ever come Home to her.

He appeard very serious and earnest, according to his Capacity, in making his Peace with God, and Preparing for his future State; enquiring much about the Nature of the Sacrament, and other Things relating to his future Happiness.

This is all e Account to be given by,

T. PURNEY, Ordinary, and Chaplain

LONDON: Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bridewell-Bridge, in Black-Fryers .

