THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Friday the 31st of October, 1718.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday the 10th, 11th, and 12th of September last, 13 Men that were Try'd for and Convicted of several Capital Crimes, receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly. And at the last Sessions held at the same Place on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the 15th, 16th, and 17th of this instant October, Eight Men and One Woman, then likewise Try'd for, and found Guilty, viz. Two of Murder, and the rest of Felony without the Benefit of the Clergy, did also receive such a Sentence: But of the former (who were Thirteen in number) One dying after a long illness in the Dungeon, commonly call'd the Condemn'd Hold, on Sunday the 12th instant, and 8 of the 12 Men who remain'd of that number, with 5 of this latter, having obtain'd a most gracious Reprieve, 8 only are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them twice every Day brought up to the Chapel of Newgate, where I pray'd with them, and read and expounded the Word of GOD to them, which as they seem'd to give great Attention to, so I hope they were edify'd and comforted by it; being made sensible they had greatly offended GOD, injur'd their Neighbours, and polluted their own Souls. These I daily laid before them to consider, as Things of the greatest import to them, and which (by the Assistance of the Divine Grace intervening) might bring them into a state of sincere Repentance, and prepare them for a happy and glorious Eternity.

On the Lord's Days following I preach'd to them, both in the Forenoons and Afternoons, upon the Texts hereafter set down, viz.

The 14th of the last Month, upon the 19th Psalm, Ver. 7. The Law of the Lord is a perfect Law, converting the Soul: The Testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the Simple.

Having first explain'd both Text and Context in general, I then spoke in particular to these several Points resulting therefrom, viz.

I. The Nature of GOD, who is our great Legislator or Law-giver.

II. The Spirituality and Extent of his Law.

III. The Vivacity and Strength of our own Souls, for whose sakes (chiefly) this Law is given us.

IV. The Opposition we meet within our selves, and the many Temptations and Assaults we have from without, whenever we are endeavouring to prepare our Souls, and bring them to a just Conformity and due Obedience to the Divine Law.

V. The many Miscarriages of our past Lives, notwithstanding our Knowledge of the indispensable Duty of our obeying that Law.

VI. ult. The miserable Toil and Slavery of a Life of Sin; and by what means we may be releas'd out of it, and admitted into the glorious Liberty of the Children of God.

The 21st of the same Month my Text was this, Luke 15. 1, 2. Then drew near unto Him all the Publicans and Sinners, for to hear Him: And the Pharisees and Scribes murmured, saying, This Man receiveth Sinners, and eateth with them.

From which Words, first explain'd at large, I then shew'd,

I. What was this Coming of the Publicans and Sinners to Christ; their good and pious Intent, and the blessed Effect thereof, viz. their receiving Divine Instruction and Spiritual Comfort to their Souls.

II. The Pharisees Pride and Arrogancy, which made them murmur at Christ, and envy those poor Sinners who desir'd to repent and become Good Men, and therefore resorted to Christ, to hear and learn of Him the Heavenly and Saving Doctrine he taught.

The 28th of the aforesaid Month of September last I took these Words for my Text, Matt. 11. 29, 30. Come unto me, all ye that labour, and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my Yoke upon you, and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in Heart: And ye shall find Rest unto your Souls. For my Yoke is easie, and my Burden is light.

After a general Explanation of the Text, I divided it into, and distinctly discours'd upon, these four Parts; shewing,

I. Who He is that invites in the Text.

II. Who They are that we find invited.

III. What sort of Invitation this is.

IV. and lastly, What great Arguments are used to perswade Men to accept of it.

The 5th of this instant October, upon 2 Pet. 3. 9. The Lord is not slack concerning his Promise (as some Men count slackness) but is long-suffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to Repentance.

From this Text and Context I observ'd,

I. That CHRIST, who had promis'd, That He will one Day come to judge the World; and, That He will then receive the Good and Penitent to Himself, and destroy the Wicked and Impenitent, is able to perform his Promise to the uttermost.

II. That He who has made this Promise and Declaration, is yet longsuffering to us-ward; being so Merciful as to bear with us for a time, and not bring us to speedy Judgment

III. That one great Reason of that his transcendent Mercy to us, is, That none of us should perish.

IV. ult. That the only Way to prevent this perishing (tho' not that Judgment) is to improve such Mercy into Repentance; which the Apostle intimates here is the Design of Christ's delaying his Coming.

The 12th instant, upon Mark 6. 12. And they went out and preach'd, That Men should repent.

From these Words, first explain'd in general, with their Context, I shew'd in particular,

I. The Nature of Repentance.

II. The absolute Necessity of it.

III. The great Danger of delaying it.

IV. & lastly, The blessed Effects of a timely and constant Practice of it.

Upon the several Heads of all those Sermons I enlarg'd, and concluded them with suitable Exhortations to the Condemn'd, who did all appear to be very serious and attentive to those Instructions and Admonitions I then gave them.

And again on the Lord's Day the 19th instant, when I had Nine Persons more added to those condemn'd before, I likewise preach'd to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Eccl. 1. 9. Rejoice, O Young-man in thy Youth, and let thy Heart cheer thee in the days of thy Youth, and walk in the way of thy Heart, and in the sight of thine Eyes: But know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into Judgment.

From this Text, first open'd in general, I laid down these Points to be severally spoken to, viz.

I. That there is a Judgment to come, and very strict and severe it will be against all harden'd and impenitent Sinners.

II. That all Men shall be brought to that Judgment.

III. That it is GOD, the Great Judge of the whole World, who will bring them to it.

IV. That the Matter of it will be the Way of their own Heart, and the Sight of their Eyes; which implies their Thoughts, Words, and Deeds.

V. ult. That all this is sure, and evident, from this positive Expression in the Text, Know thou [not Think or Believe, but Know] know thou, that for all these Things [i. e. thy Evil Thoughts, Wicked Words, and Sinful Actions] GOD will bring thee into Judgment.

Lastly, I preach'd again (the 26th instant) on part of the 2d Evening Lesson, viz. Ephes. 6. 18. Praying always with all Prayer and Supplication in Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance.

After a Paraphrastical Explanation both of this Text and Context, I distinctly shew'd what is to be understood by those Phrases,

1st, Praying always.

2dly, With all Prayer and Supplication.

3dly, In the Spirit, and watching thereunto.

4thly, With all perseverance.

Then I proceeded to discourse upon these Points resulting therefrom, viz.

I. The indispensable Necessity of Prayer.

II. The proper Disposition and due Qualifications for it.

III. ult. The transcendent Advantages accruing from it.

Having enlarg'd on all those Heads, I concluded each of my several Sermons (which were 14 in number) with suitable Exhortations and Applications to the Condemn'd Persons in particular, endeavouring both in publick and private to give them such proper Instructions as their sad Circumstances requir'd, and might prove conducive to their Repentance and Salvation, which they did all of 'em (some more, some less) shew a Concern for: And those appointed to this Death gave me the respective Accounts of themselves which follow.

1. John Brown , alias Lawrence , alias Heyfeild (which last was his right Name) condemn'd for breaking the Shop of Mr. Henry Powel , and stealing some Pieces and Parts of Silk Shoes, value 12 s. on the 30th of July last. He said, he was about 33 Years of age, born of honest Parents in the Parish of St. Botolph Aldersgate , and had formerly kept (for a while) a Toy-shop just over-against that Church, which before had been his Father's for 40 Years together. He confess'd the Fact he was condemn'd for, and (upon my putting him in mind of it) own'd also, That he had been some times burnt in the Hand, and once receiv'd Sentence of Death, and the Mercy of a Pardon, which he pleaded at the Old-bailey on Saturday the 6th of August, 1715; having then lain above 18 Months under Condemnation, for stealing 2 Pieces of Callicoe out of Mr. Tho. Clark 's Shop, on the 14th of January 1703/1704; and, That instead of complying with the Condition of that Pardon, which was, That he should transport himself out of the King's Dominions in Europe within 6 Months after his pleading it, he remain'd still in London , and there committed new Facts; for some of which that were brought to light, he was apprehended and sent to Newgate ; and when discharg'd out of that Place (which was not very long since) he could not forbear following his Vicious Course of Life, to which (by his own Confession) he was so addicted that he found it hitherto impossible for him to leave it off, though he had, when under Affliction before, strongly resolv'd (as he thought) against it. Upon this I shew'd him the Cause of his Relapse; which was (as he now acknowledg'd) his not minding afterwards his Resolutions, and the Promises he had made both to GOD and Man, of amending his Life; which he (under this last Condemnation) seem'd to be very sensible of, and sorry for his Abuse of former Mercies, praying GOD to forgive him all his Sins, and the Persons by him wrong'd, the Injuries he had done them.

2. James Violet , alias Filewood (the last he said was his right Name) condemn'd for two Facts, viz. First, for feloniously stealing a Pocket with 6 s. 5 d. in Money, and an Handkerchief, from the Person of Mrs. Mary Banbrook ; and, Secondly, for assaulting Mrs. Frances Baldock , and taking from her a Pocket with 12 Guinea's, 2 Pistoles, &c. on the 28th of March last.

He said, he was 27 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Peter, Cornhill ; where his Father, a Poulterer , rented a House and liv'd in good repute for many Years, as being a just and upright Man, whose Advice and Example it would have been well for him to have follow'd. He denied one of the Facts, viz. that about the 12 Guinea's, &c. but the other he confess'd his being guilty of, and would fain have perswaded me it was his first: But upon my telling him, that I thought I had formerly seen him in Newgate , he own'd, That indeed he had been there more than once, but being Innocent of some of the Facts laid against him, and none fully prov'd upon him, he was ever acquitted. I asking him what his former Life had been, and what Imployment he had follow'd; he answer'd, That for a time he follow'd his Father's Trade, and at other times serv'd the Crown at Sea , on board the New Neptune, and the New Scarborough, and had serv'd also in Merchantmen; but the last Service he was in, was on board a Collier; in all which Services he said he had behav'd himself well. But as I look'd upon him to be an old Offender, I still press'd him to discover what Evils (which I suppos'd were many) he had done in the World, and clear his Conscience, and set all things to rights: To which he reply'd, He had not committed so many as I might suspect him guilty of; but perhaps I had the worse Opinion of him upon the account of a Name-sake of his, who about Ten Years ago had receiv'd Sentence of Death. As for himself, he said, That indeed he could not deny but he had been a very ill-liver, and done very wicked things, which now he was not able to repair; but earnestly pray'd GOD, and all the Persons he had any ways offended, to forgive h.

3. Samuel Cole , alias Valentine Newell (the former being his right Name) condemn'd for breaking open the House of Mrs. Elizabeth Gumley , and stealing thence (on the 4th of August last) 2 Silver-Candlesticks, 9 Silver-Forks, and several other pieces of Plate, the Goods of a Gentleman he had lately been a Servant to. He said, he was 19 Years of age, born at Canesham , within 4 Miles of Bath : That he had been Apprentice to a Butcher in that Country; and by the instigation of a lewd Woman, who kept company with him, had robb'd his said Master the Butcher, at several times, of small things, as Groats, Sixpences, and Shillings: That he left him before he had serv'd out his Apprentiship, and went into Gentlemen's Service: That about eighteen Months ago, he being a Servant to a Person of Quality, was by him brought up to London ; but soon after quitting that Service, he came to live with the Gentleman whose Plate he confess'd he stole; which wicked Fact he would not have done, had not the Woman that was an Evidence against him put him upon it.

I ask'd him, Whether he was guilty of other Facts besides those he here confess'd? To which he said, He was; but not of that about stealing Wearing-Apparel out of the Shop of Mr. James Kinsbury , on the 16th of July last, which he was convicted of, and order'd to be transported for; adding, That what Evils he had done he could not now undo, nor make amends for; but pray'd that GOD, and those he had wrong'd, would be pleas'd to forgive him.

4. Henry Abbot , condemn'd for Burglary, in breaking the House of Mr. Jonathan Jones , and stealing thence 5 Silver-Spoons, a Silver-Cup, and other Plate and Goods, on the 20th of August last.

He said, he was 19 Years of age, born at Mile-End in the Parish of St. Dunstan, Stepney : That he was bound Apprentice to a Carpenter in White-Chapel , with whom when he had been two Years, he left him, upon the account of his great Severity to him and Hastiness in giving him Blows on the Head, and any where else he could hit; which tho' his said Master was afterwards sorry for, when his Passion was over, yet he still feeling the smart, could not easily forget them: That as soon as he had left him, he went to serve another Carpenter, who was to maintain him for his Work till he had serv'd out the Remainder of his Time, which was five Years; but of those five Years he had not serv'd above two when he committed the Fact he now stood condemn'd for; which he confess'd, but said it was his first, and would be his last, if he should live never so long. I found him very tractable and penitent.

Thus far as to my Account of the Persons who receiv'd Sentence of Death at the former Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-baily in September last, and are order'd for Execution at this time. And now I proceed to those of the latter Sessions; who are as follows, viz.

5. Sarah Brown , alias Giles , alias Cranfield , or rather Cranford , was condemn'd with William Audley hereafter mention'd, for the Murder and Robbery by them and the Evidence against them (together with the Assistance of two others, viz. One Polcrony, not yet taken, and Ralph Emmery ) committed in Stepney-fields , upon the Person of Mr. Nathanael Asser , from whom they took 2 Gold Rings, a green Purse with 10 Guinea's, and other Things, on the 28th of June last. This Sarah Brown said, she was 20 Years of age, born in Spittle-fields , and was (as she had been told) baptiz'd in Whitechapel Church : That when she was very young, her Parents (who were honest People) remov'd from Spittle-fields to the Mint in Southwark , and as she grew up, learnt the Weaver 's

Trade, and work'd at it, weaving Woollen Stuff only, by which she might have got a pretty Livelihood; but growing vicious and lewd, had brought her self under the Hand of Justice before now, being once or twice order'd to the Workhouse, for picking Pockets, which was the chief Business she had follow'd for these several Years past. She deny'd the Facts she was condemn'd for, and was both ignorant and obstinate, insomuch that I found it very difficult to make her sensible of the Necessity of Repentance. Hearing that she lately married an honest Person in White-Chapel , having another Husband alive at the same time, I ask'd her whether it was so; to which she reply'd, It was; adding, That her former Husband was now under Condemnation with her, under the Name of John Cole , alias Cranfield , for stealing a Woman's Pocket; but this Person has obtain'd a gracious Reprieve; which, if he be wise, he will take care duly to improve.

6. William Audley , condemn'd with Sarah Brown , for the Murder of Mr. Nathanael Asser , and Robbing him of a Purse and 10 Guinea's, 2 Gold Rings, and other Things, on 28th of June last, as is before mention'd. He said, he was 18 Years of age in July last, born in Flower and Deanstreet in Spittle-fields : That he wrought with a Weaver there, doing Drawing-work for him as soon as he was capable of working; and by that got 2 s. 6 d and sometimes 3 s a Week: That growing loose he ran away from his Master and Parents; and had for these 6 Years past follow'd very ill Courses, and all the while made it his chief Business to pick Pockets. That having on some of such Facts been Try'd, and found Guilty, he was once sent to the Workhouse without Bishopsgate , and at another time to the Bridewell of London : But these Punishments wrought no Reformation in him, who deny'd the Fact he was condemn'd for, and was like the preceding Offender, Sarah Brown , very hard to be brought to Repentance.

7. John Multus , alias Colethurst (the latter being his right Name) condemn'd for two Facts, viz. First, For assaulting Mr. David Sinclar upon the Highway, and taking from him a Horse, value 6 l. belonging to Mr. Thomas Cox , on the 19th of September last; and, Secondly, For a like Assault, made by him, upon the Person of Mr. Thomas Finch , from whom he took a Cloth-Coat, a Pair of Spurs, and a Gelding, value 20 l the Property of Mr. Matthew Lane , on the 22d of the same Month of September last. He said, he was 21 Years of age, born at Leeds in Yorkshire : That he serv'd an Apprenticeship with a Cloth-dresser there, and afterwards was listed a Soldier , and continu'd 4 Years in that Service: That about 6 weeks since he came up to London , and wrought at his Trade of Cloth-dressing . He deny'd both the Facts he stood condemn'd for; and further said, That he never committed any Crime in his Life. All the time he lay under Condemption, he was so very ill and weak, that he could not be brought up to the Chapel; and when I visited him in that loathsome Place the Condemn'd Hold, I found he could hardly speak, so that it was with much difficulty I got this Confession from him. He desir'd my Prayers, and said that he repented of all his Sins, and trusted in GOD, that through the Merits of CHRIST he should be Saved.

8. George Brown , candemn'd for stealing 18 Guinea's, a Moidore, and 48 Shillings in Silver, the Goods of Mrs. Eliz. Jones , on the 8th of this instant October.

He said, he was 22 Years of age, born at Newcastle upon Tyne : That he serv'd an Apprentiship of 5 Years with a Ship Carpenter there; and after his Time was out, being troubled with Fits, and unable to follow that Imployment, he came up to London (about 6 or 7 Months since) and was a Porter at the Horn Tavern near Doctors-Commons , where he committed this Fact, and then quitted that Service. He confess'd his Crime, but said it was his first, and that he was very sorry he ever begun to be concern'd in any unlawful thing. He begg'd Pardon of GOD, of his Master, and of the Woman he had robb'd; adding, That he had made her all the Amends and Satisfaction he could. He farther said, That he had much neglected the Service of GOD, which if he had been careful to discharge, and to keep himself sober, he was sure he should never have come to this Untimely End. He mightily lamented his woful Condition, and implor'd the divine Grace and Mercy.

At the Place of Execution, to which they were carried this Day from Newgate in three Carts, I attended them for the last time, and with pressing Exhortations endeavour'd to perswade them to a full clearing of their Consciences by a free Confession and thorough Repentance of all their Sins. Upon which they said, They had confess'd all, and heartily repented. Sarah Brown and William Awdley persisted in their Denial; so did John Colethurst ; as did likewise James Filewood , about his robbing Mrs. Baldock, tho' he again confess'd the other Fact. After this I pray'd for them all, and particularly for Sarah Brown and William Awdley , that they might be deliver'd from Blood-guiltiness. Then I sang some Penitential Psalms with them, and made them rehearse the Apostles Creed; and I advis'd them all to desire the Spectators to pray for them, and take Warning by them; which these Malefactors did, and declar'd, That they dy'd in Charity with all the World, and ask'd Pardon of all whom they had offended; and James Filewood particularly spoke these Words; I desire you all to take Warning by us; And look upon it, That whosoever follows such a Course, will soon or late come to this End. When they had done speaking I pray'd again with them, recommending their Souls to the boundless Mercy of a Good and Gracious GOD. So I withdrew, and left them to their private Devotion, for which they had some time allotted 'em, which being expir'd, the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, calling all the while upon GOD to pardon their Sins, and receive their Souls.

This is all the Account here to be given by me, of these Dying Malefactors.

To which I shall add,

A SUMMARY of all the Malefactors who have been Condemned, Repriev'd, and Executed, (as likewise of those that Dy'd in Newgate between the Day of their Condemnation, and that appointed for their Execution) in London and Middlesex, from the Time of my being chosen to be the Minister and Ordinary of Newgate, (which was in November 1700) to the Close of the late Mayoralty.

NB. When I first enter'd upon this arduous and melancholy Office, in the Beginning of the Mayoralty of the Right Honourable Sir THOMAS ABNEY , Knight , I found no less than 65 Persons that had lain for a great while before under Condemnation, viz. 52 Pirates, (who were for the most part Foreigners) and 13 other Criminals. Of the Pirates, 24 were Hanged at one time at the Execution-Dock in Wapping, and of the 13 other Malefactors, 8 were Executed at Tyburn.

In the Mayoralty of 1.

Sir Thomas Abney , Kt . Condemn'd. 118 Repriev'd. 48 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 4 Executed. 66 2.

Sir William Gore , Kt . Condemn'd. 49 Repriev'd. 36 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 13 3.

Sir Samuel Dashwood , Kt . Condemn'd. 38 Repriev'd. 20 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 4.

Sir John Parsons , Kt . Condemn'd. 35 Repriev'd. 18 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 17 5.

Sir Owen Buckingham , Kt . Condemn'd. 44 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 16 6.

Sir Thomas Rawlinson , Kt . Condemn'd. 33 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 5 7.

Sir Robert Bedingfield , Kt . Condemn'd. 23 Repriev'd. 5 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 8.

Sir William Withers , Kt . Condemn'd. 34 Repriev'd. 16 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 18 9.

Sir Charles Duncomb , Kt . Condemn'd. 39 Repriev'd. 29 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 10 10.

Sir Sam. Garrard , Kt .& Bart Condemn'd. 36 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 8 11.

Sir Gilbert Heathcote , Kt . Condemn'd. 36 Repriev'd. 23 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 13 12.

Sir Robert Beachcrost , Kt . Condemn'd. 43 Repriev'd. 28 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 15 13.

Sir Richard Hoare , Kt . Condemn'd. 60 Repriev'd. 35 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 25 14.

Sir Samuel Stanier , Kt . Condemn'd. 108 Repriev'd. 48 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 1 Executed. 59 15.

Sir Will. Humphrys , Kt .& Bart Condemn'd. 76 Repriev'd. 38 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 38 16.

Sir Charles Peers , Kt . Condemn'd. 122 Repriev'd. 52 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 70 17.

Sir James Bateman , Kt .& Bart Condemn'd. 132 Repriev'd. 77 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 0 Executed. 55 18.

Sir William Lewen , Kt . Condemn'd. 91 Repriev'd. 60 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 1 Executed. 30

Total - Condemn'd. 1117 Repriev'd. 617 Dy'd after Condemnation, and before their Execution. 6 Executed. 494

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Friday, October 31 1718

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-lane , Selleth all sorts of Bibles and Common Prayers, viz. The Three new large Folio Bibles, printed at Oxford: The English and French Common Prayer: All sorts of Common Prayer-books, illustrated with Sturt's Cuts, Vander Gucht's best Cuts or painted Cuts (rul'd or unrul'd) or without; bound in Shagrine, with Silver Work or without, or in any other manner of Binding: Neat Pocket Bibles, with the Cambridge Concordance: Books of Devotion, the Sacrament, History, &c. And all sorts of Bibles, Common Prayers, and other Books for the Use of Charity (and other) Schools. Likewise the Statutes at large, Books of Homilies, Duty of Man, &c. and Letter-Cases of all sorts, by Wholesale and Retail. Note, Also Welsh Bibles and Common Prayers.

In the Press, and will speedlily be publish'd, the 5th Edition of

THE Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , Serious, Moral, and Comical, in Prose and Verse, corrected from the Errors of the former Impression; adorn'd with beautiful Cuts, by the best Masters in 4 vols, in a new Elzevir Letter. Also, the 3d Edition of the 3d Vol. of the Posthumous Works of Mr. Samuel Butler , Author of Hudibras, which makes his Works entire. To which is added, the Coffin for the Good-old-Cause, publish'd just before the Restauration. Written by Samuel Luke , in 2 vol. Just publish'd, in neat Pocket Volumes, Familiar Letters of Love, Gallantry, and several Occasions, written by the Wits of the last and present Age, viz. Mr. Butler, Author of Hudibras, Mr. Flatman, Mr. Dryden, Mr. Congreve, Mr. Wycherly, Mr. Dennis, Mr. Farquhar, Mr. Edw. Ward, Mr. Moyle, Mr. Otway, Mrs. Behn, Mrs. Manly, Mrs. Trotter, Mrs. Cent Livre,

Sir R. L'Estrange,

Sir John Denham ,

Sir G. Etheridge, Ld Clarendon, Ld Dorset, D. of Buckingham, D. of Devonshire, &c. from their Originals, with their Effigies curiously engrav'd by the best Masters: Together with Tom Brown 's Remains, being Letters and Dialogues on the Times (not printed in his Works) the whole collected in two vols. Printed for S. Briscoe, R. Smith, E. Symons, J. Osborn, J. Brotherton, all near the Royal Exchange; W. Taylor, A. Bettesworth, J. Batley in Pater-noster-Row; J. Brown, W. Mears, F. Clay at Temple-bar; J. Barnes, J. Graves at S. James's and J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

Sold by S. BRISCOE, near Mr. Mist's in Carter-lane. Price 3 d.

