THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN On WEDNESDAY the 5th of OCTOBER.

BEING THE THIRD EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir JOHN THOMPSON , Knt .

Number III. For the said Year.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXVII.

(Price Six-pence.)

BOOKS, Printed and Sold by J. APPLEBEE, in Bolt-Court , Fleet-Street .

1. SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Baley, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Time; chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. These Trials, &c. are not to be met with in any other Collection. In Two Volumes, Price 14 s.

These Two Volumes contains the TRIALS of Hawkings and Sympson, for robbing the Bristol Mail, with an Account of all their Robberies.

Spiggot, the famous Highwayman, that bore 350 Pound Weight on his Breast.

Butler, Bton, Fox, Hawes, Wright-Colthouse, Drury, Warwick, Yates, Armstrong, Beck, Edwards, and many others, all famous Highwaymen and Street-Robbers.

Arthur Grey the famous Footman , for Burglary with an Intent to ravish Mrs. Murray.

Dr. Kraafe, Pritchard, Simmonds, Cooke, Ellis, and many others for Rapes, all very entertaining.

Capt. Stanly, for the Murder of his Whore.

Brinsdon, Carry Nichols, Mac Gennis Iterell, the famous Nanny Butler, Vaughan, and Cholmly, (two Constables) Foster Snow , & many others for Murder Major Onlry, for the Murder of Mr. Gower, with his Life.

Vy and Hallam, for the Murder of their Wives.

Richard Savage . Esq ; for Murder, with his Life.

Captain Jane, for Murder Edward Stafford , Esq ; and many others.

Sally Salisbury , for an Attempt to stab the Hon. Esq;

Sir Charles Burton Bart , for Felony.

Duffs, Carid ence, and a great many others, for Sodomy, shewing all the Tricks and Methods used by the Mollies.

Squire Day, alias Davenport, for a Cheat, and several others for bilking their Lodgings.

Two German Counts, for forging a Bank, Note.

Jonathan Wild , for several Felonies, with several Particulars of his Life, never before published.

Mrs. Gregory, for marrying 'Squire Cockeril, under Pretence of being a great Fortune.

The infamous Catherine Hays , who murdered her Husband, and lay with another Man the very same Night.

Mrs. Shenan, for giving Poison to Mr. Chovet.

Vevers, the Brick layer, on all his Indictments.

Mary Hendron , for marrying Miss Morris to an Irishman, against her Consent.

Blind Cowper and Harpham, and others, for Coining.

Russel, for a Misdemeanour, in endeavouring to carry away Mrs. Benson.

William Hales , Esq ; and Parson Kinnersley, for Forgery.

Atkinson, for the Murder of his Mother, at Charing-Cross.

With a great Number of diverting TRIALS of Whores, for robbing of those that pick'd them up; and several other remarkable ones for the Highway, Rapes, Murders, Burglaries, &c.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trials; among which are upwards of seventy Trials for Murder, near Sixty of Whores for privately stealing, upwards of one Hundred for the Highway, about Thirty for Rapes; the rest being for Frauds Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy Bigamy, Shop-lfting, Riots Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single Felonies &c. &c. &c.

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictments, and other Persons concern'd in Prosecutions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers.

2. SALMON's new Abridgeme; of the STATE TRIALS; wherein are inserted several Trials not in any other Collection; also, some Trials that were taken in Haste and scarce intelligible, are brought into regular Order, and many Deficiencies through ut the Whole supply'd. Likewise REMARKS are made on each TRIAL, shewing what the Law Criminal Cases antiently was, how it has been and stands at this Day; together with impartial Memoirs of the Times and Characters of the Sufferers. To which is added, a compleat Alphabetical INDEX of the Names of the Prisoners tried, the Times when; their Crimes, and their Punishment. Price, neatly bound and letter'd on the Back, 1 l. 15 s.

3. MOGUL TALES, or, The Dreams of Men awake: Being Stories told to divert the Grief of the Sultana's of Guzarat for the supposed Death of the Sultan. Now first translated into English from the French of the celebrated Mr. GUELLETTE. With a Prefatory Discourse on the Usefulness of ROMANCES.

In pleasing Tales the artful Sage can give,

Rules how in Happiness and Ease to live:

Can shew what Good should most attract the Mind,

And how our Woes we from our Vices find:

Delighting, yet instructing, this our Youth,

Who catch at Fable - how to gather Truth.

In Two Volumes, adorn'd with Cuts, neatly engrav'd on Copper Plates, Price 5 s.

4. The EUNUCH, or, The Darby Captain; a Farce, as it is acted by his Majesty's Servants at the Theatre Royal in Drury Lane. Taken chiefly from Hautus and Terence, by the Editor of the late Edition of Terence in Three Volumes, Price 1 s.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. Sir John Thompson , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds, the Hon. Mr. Baron Comyns, the Hon. Mr. Justice Chapple, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 6th, 7th, 8th, and 9th of July, 1737, and in the 11th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz John Bullock , John Goswell , Robert Barrow , Martin Wright , John Purdy , John Richardson , and John Baily ; and one Woman, viz. Katherine Lenges , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death. Also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. Sir John Thompson , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Hon. Mr. Baron Thomson, Recorder of the City of London, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the said City, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 7th, 8th, and 9th of September, 1737, in the 11th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. John Totterdale , John Cotton , William Clark , John Hickman , Richard Franklin , Dorrel Smalt , and William Jones , were found guilty of capital Offences by the Jury, and condemn'd to die.

While under Sentence, they were instructed in the Nature of their Baptismal Covenant, and the Promises made

therein to forsake Sin, Satan, and the World. They were informed that Sin was a most high Provocation in God's Eyes, such as drew him to destroy whole Cities with Fire and Brimstone, as we read, Gen. xix. nay, the whole World with Water, Gen. vi. and will not fail to bring down Judgments, and strange ones, on those that continue therein. I convinced them of their Deficiency in the Performance of Christian Duties, and how guilty they had been of the Breach of their Baptismal Vows, and of their State of Infidelity. I proved to them the Obligation all of us are under to keep God's holy Will and Commandments, and to walk in the same all the Days of our Lives, &c.

Serjeant Baily and John Totterdale having committed Murder, I represented to them the Nature of their Crime, that it is usurping the special Prerogative of Almighty God, who kills and makes alive; it is an irreparable Loss done to our Neighbour, for which no Manner of Satisfaction can possibly be made; that it was a Transgression of all Laws, divine and human; that it being so very heinous a Crime, the Murderer could expect nothing but a double Degree of Punishment; and its observed, that the Vengeance of God never fails to pursue him even in this World, for the Torments of an evil Conscience, most constantly attend him, &c.

They were diligently exhorted to an unfeigned Repentance of all their Sins, and to resolve, by the Grace of God, to forsake them; and in Token of the Sincerity of their Repentance, to renew their Baptismal Vows by receiving the blessed Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, by which the Blessings of the Covenant of Grace, are sealed and applied to all true Believers.

While these and divers other Exhortations were given, they all attended in Chapel, and were very quiet and attentive. John Baily had more Knowledge than the rest; he seemed very penitent, devout, and serious, behaving himself with great Resignation and Submission. Katherine Lenge had a Family of young Children, and the 109th Psalm being read of Course upon the 22d Day of the Month, she wept most bitterly at the prophetick Maledictions denounced therein against God's Enemies, and seemed to be thoroughly affected therewith. Bullock, Barrow, Purdy, and Richardson, were ignorant and illiterate, but they behaved decently. Barrow at first dissembled, and pretended to be so ignorant, as not to be able to understand any thing; but afterwards he appeared to know as much as any of them, and carried himself indifferently well. Totterdale (except 2 or 3 Days) was all the Time sick; he appeared to be a mean cowardly spirited Person, for his Illness did not proceed from Sickness, but from a certain Lowness of Spirit and Dejection of Mind, occasioned by the Torments of an evil Conscience, Furies and Vultures being (as he confessed) constantly preying upon his Heart. Clark and Franklin were sick most of the Time, but they were humble and submissive, and behaved well.

Upon Thursday the 29th of September, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Fifteen Malefactors under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate; when John Bullock , for

stealing a Mare of a black Colour, val. 5 l. the Goods of John Shortland , in the Parish of Hornsey , June the 10th; Martin Wright , of St. Paul's Covent-Garden , for stealing 8 Guineas, the Property of Roger Applegarth , in his Dwelling-House, June the 4th; John Bailey , of the Tower of London , for assaulting William Burton , with a drawn Sword made of Iron and Steel, which he held in his Right-hand, and giving the said Burton, on the Right-side of the Belly, under the Right-ribs, a mortal Wound of the Breadth of half an Inch, and the Depth of six Inches, June the 20th, by Reason of which he languished, and languishingly lived; from the said 20th to the 21st Day of the said Month, and then died (of which Crime he was found Guilty); William Clark , of St. Martin's in the Fields , found Guilty of assaulting Eman Wilque , in a certain Court, and open Place, near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Silver-watch, and Steel-chain, val. 5 l. and a Steel-seal, set in Bath metal, val. 6 d July the 27th; John Hickman , of St. Leonard Shoreditch , convicted of feloniously making and causing to be made a certain false, forged and counterfeit Promissory Note for the Sum of 56 l. &c. and of uttering and publishing the same, knowing it to be false, forg'd and counterfeit, July the 27th; William Jones , found Guilty of privately stealing a Silver-watch, val. 5 l. from the Person of Willoughby Merchant , in the Parish of St. Katharine Cree-Church , September the 7th; Richard Franklyn and Dorrel Smalt , convicted of breaking and entering the House of Richard Walker , about the Hour of Twelve in the Night-time, and stealing thence twelve Yards of Leaden-pipe, and a Brass cock fixed thereto, val. 38 s. the Goods of Richard Hoare and Thomas Smith , June the 4th, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve; the remaining Seven, viz. John Goswel , otherwise Bob the Butcher , Robert Barrow , John Purdy , John Richardson , Catharine Leng , John Totterdale and John Cotton , were ordered for Execution.

John Goswel , otherwise Bob the Butcher , and Robert Barrow , otherwise Run-well , of St. George's Bloomsbury , were indicted for assaulting James Christian in a certain open Place, near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him an Iron-key, val. 1 d. a Silk-purse, val. 6 d. five Brass medals, val. 1 d. one Guinea, and 6 s. and 2 d. in Money, April the 7th.

1. John Goswel , alias Bob the Butcher, 24 Years of Age, in April last, born of honest Parents in Town, who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and Arithmetick, and instructed him in the Principles of Christianity. At a proper Age, he was put Apprentice to a Butcher in Butcher-Row , whom he serv'd honestly, and his Time being expired, he follow'd his Employment for some Time, and his Masters approv'd of him for his Care and Diligence; but falling into bad Company, he was in a very short Time plung'd into such Courses as brought him to inevitable Ruin. He had been a Master Butcher , and own'd, he might have done very well, had he not been led aside by bad Company, who would not allow him to settle in any Way that had but an Appearance of Honesty. He married a Wife about two Years ago, who, upon his Misfortunes, was so over-whelm'd with Grief and Sorrow, that she died before the Report was made. She told him, it would be her Fate to die before him, of Grief, Shame and Discontent, which accordingly happen'd. He said, that Wilson the Evidence against him, was the chief Instrument in drawing him to Sin, for he used to drink with him to excess, and then would persuade him to go on the Highway, and that Night they robb'd Mr. Christian, they were all very Drunk, and none of them knew what they were doing. He said, he had not committed above two or three Street-Robberies, besides this for which he died; but for some Years past, he confess'd he had follow'd Picking of Pockets in the Evening. In the former Part of his Life, he was not so vicious, but pretty regular, and went frequently to Church; but no sooner did he take himself to bad Company, and a profligate Way of Life, but he renounc'd Religion, Sobriety, and the Fear of God. He lamented, and shed Tears, when he reflected upon the extreme Folly of his Actions, to which he said he had no Temptation, because he might have been in good Business, and have wanted for nothing. He always behaved well, both in the Cell, and in Publick, appearing truly Penitent for the many Sins and Crimes of his Life. He declar'd his Hopes of Salvation through the Merits of Jesus Christ, repented of his Sins, and dy'd in Peace with all the World.

2. Robert Barrow , 21 Years of Age, born in the City of Chester , of honest Parents, who had him well educated at School, and instructed in religious Principles. When he was of Age, his Father, who used the Sea, bound him to a Captain at Liverpool ; from thence he went several Voyages to the West-Indies , and at one Time he liv'd there for the Space of five Years. He was miserably Poor and naked, and was in so very pitiful a Condition, that he declar'd he was willing rather to die than live. He talk'd as if he had

good Friends, but that he was asham'd to write to any of them, to let them know the miserable Condition he had reduc'd himself to. He had made a Voyage, and return'd to England half a Year before he was taken up, and coming to London , he fell into bad Company, and among others, with the Evidence Wilson, whom he represented as a most pernicious Fellow, for having, with him, spent all his Wages, which he had sav'd together, amounting to fourteen Guineas, then he was persuaded to thieve and rob with him, and accordingly they went out together, picking Pockets, robbing in the Streets of the City, and stealing whatever they could lay their Hands upon, till Goswel and he were taken up for the Robbery committed upon Mr. Christian, in Bloomsbury-square , and for which both of them were brought to condign Punishment. Both of them own'd the Robbery they dy'd for, and Barrow confess'd that he was a most wicked, abandon'd Youth, and a Disgrace to his Friends and Relations, who are good and credible Persons, and who had given him a sufficient Education, but that his having acted contrary to all their Admonitions and Instructions, had brought him to all that Misery and Distress, which he then most deservedly endur'd. He behav'd well all the Time he was under Sentence, declar'd that he hop'd for Salvation by the Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ; that he repented sincerely for all the Sins of his Life, and dy'd in Peace with all the World.

John Totterdale , of St. John the Evangelist , Victualler , was indicted for that he not having God before his Eyes, &c. August the 1st, on Mary his Wife , did make an Assault, and with both his Hands, in and upon the Stairs of his Dwelling-house, the said Mary did cast and throw down, and she on the Stairs, so lying, he, the said John, did drag and pull down to the Bottom, and her the said Mary, from the Bottom of the said Stairs, into a certain Room in the said House, did cast and drag, and the said Mary so lying on the Floor, he, with both his Hands and Feet, her Head, Neck, Breast, Shoulders, Back, Sides, Belle, and Thighs, did strike, kick and stamp upon; giving her, as well by throwing and dragging her down the said Stairs, as by stricking, kicking and stamping upon her, several mortal Bruises, of which she instantly died.

He was a second Time indicted on the Coroner's Inquest for the said Murder.

3 John Totterdale , 32 Years of Age, of honest Parents, about three Miles from Taunton , in Somersetshire , who sent him to School to read and write, and to be instructed in the Principles of Religion. When of Age he was not put to any Trade, but his Father being a Husbandman, bred him the same Way. He lived by serving Gentlemen or Farmers in the Country some Years, and was looked upon as an honest good-natur'd Fellow. About sixteen or seventeen Years ago he came to Town thinking to better his Fortune in or about London ; all the Masters he served were two Gentlemen, one an eminent Brewer at Knightsbridge, another of the same Business at the Horse-Ferry , Westminster , nigh to which Place he took a House after he had married, and both these Gentlemen were civil and kind to him. He had been married to this Mary (his unfortunate Wife) about twelve or thirteen Years; she was born in King-street , Westminster , and by her has had six Children, two of whom are now living, one a Boy about eleven, another a Girl about eight Years old. He for some Time lived tollerably with his Wife, but they both being given to Drinking, it occasioned many Janglings and Disputes, and he frequently abused her, and often beat her in a barbarous unmerciful Manner; the Disagreement at last grew so great between them, that the poor Wife would often make Elopements from him, and sometimes would stay away two, three, or six Weeks, generally carrying off a Guinea or two, and once six; this he complained of as a Fault in his Wife; I told him the Reason of this might be his beating and abusing her in such a barbarous Manner, and the Truth of this he could not deny, but lamented grievously over his passionate and hasty Temper. He kept a Victualling Hous e nigh to the Horse-Ferry , had pretty good Business, and might have lived very well, if he and his Wife could have agreed, and have lived peaceably together, but Prudence and the Grace of God was wanting ('tis to be feared) in them both, and this occasioned all their Misfortunes. The barbarous Murder for which he is to suffer, was committed upon the following Occasion.

August the 1st he sent out his Wife to get a small Debt of five Shillings, which he looked upon as lost Money; she received it, but meeting a Neighbour as she was coming Home, she told her the Success of her Errand, and that he would give her a Judas Kiss for getting the Money, though she expected no Good to follow, but cruel Treatment according to his ordinary Custom; all this he verrified upon their meeting together, for as soon as she got Home, she gave the Crown to her Husband, and he kiss'd and embrac'd her in a very loving Manner, pretending to be very much

pleased with her. This seeming Kindness did not last long, for the poor Woman being a little in Drink, went up Stairs to lie down upon a Bed; upon this the Devil entered Totterdale, and in a violent Fit of Passion he ran up Stairs after her, dragg'd her out of Bed by the Heels, and beat her and stamped upon her in a most barbarous and cruel Manner; upon somebody's speaking to him and upbraiding him with Cruelty, he left her and went down Stairs; they hid her at the Foot of a Bed; but his violent Passion and cruel Disposition still continuing, he went up Stairs again, and opened the Chamber Door which a Lodger had locked upon her, and found her; with great Fury he threw her upon the Floor, and a Man aying hold on him to hinder him, he sprang from him, and threw her down the Stairs, himself following, kicking and stamping upon her Belly, Breast, Legs, Head, and other Parts of the Body, till he had kick'd and spurn'd her to the Bottom; then he dragged her into a little Room which was their Bedchamber, shut the Door upon them, and continued beating her in this unmerciful Manner till she died; all this was done in less than the Space of one Hour, and without any the least Provocation, she not having been heard to say any Thing that might provoke him thus barbarously to treat her, only she at first cried out two or three Times Murder, and when her Strength was quite spent, she was heard speaking faintly twice or thrice. Johnny, Johnny, don't kill me; for God's Sake don't murder me, or to that Purpose. Nine of her Ribs were broken, some of them into three, four, or six Pieces, one of them was all shatter'd into small Pieces and beat upon her Kidneys. When this was done, he lock'd his dead Wife up in the Room, and for two Hours nobody offered to lay hold on him; during which Time, though he might have made his Escape, he was in such Confusion, and his Conscience so perplexed, that he could not move out of the Place, till a Soldier and a Constable came and carried him, without any Disturbance, before a Justice, who committed him to the Gatehouse till he was removed to Newgate , to take his Trial at the Old-Bailey , where he deservedly met with his Doom. He was an irreligious profane Fellow, unu'sd to Duty and Religion, and kept Company with lewd Women; he pretended that his Wife was guilty in this Respect, with other Men in the Neighbourhood, on which Account there were mutual Jealousies between them; but yet he said he could not entertain any Thoughts of her having wronged him that Way. He pretended to be sick, and kept the Cell most of the Time he was under Sentence, but his Indisposition proceeded more from Fear and Trouble, and Sulliness of Mind, than any Sickness of Body, for when the Dead-Warrant came down, he attended regularly in Chapel, and was attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, though indeed he did not seem so deeply affected as he ought to have been, yet when I spoke to him, he sometimes would cry and weep a little. He was an obdurate hard-hearted Wretch, but profess'd a deep Repentance for all the Sins of his Life, especially the great Crime of murdering his own Wife; that he believed in Christ, and was in Peace with all Men.

John Cotton , was indicted for assaulting Thomas Gale on the King's Highway, in the Parish of St. Mary, Whitechapel , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Pair of silver Buckles, val. 15 s. a steel Tobacco-Box, valve 6 d. a Guinea, a Half Guinea, and six Shillings in Money, July the 31st.

4. John Cotton , twenty Years of Age, of honest Parents at the Horse-Ferry , Westminster , had Education at School to fit him for Business, and was taught his Duty. When he was of Age, his Father having been a Mop-Maker , he was put to one in Town of the same Business; but being of a vicious Disposition, it was not long before he got acquainted with Women, who put him upon confederating with a Gang of Pick-Pockets; in this Society he grew ripe for Ruin, and commenc'd a profess'd Thief, stealing every Thing that came in his Way; when he thought fit he would return Home to his Master, who used him with Indulgence, but nothing could prevail with him to leave his Way of Life, but he still grew more confirm'd in Wickedness. About three Years ago he got acquainted with a young Woman, who, though not married, past for his Wife, and bare him some Children, who are all dead; they liv'd in good Friendship till such Time as he was taken up and brought to Punishment for his Crimes. The Company he kept led him to all Kind of Extravagance, and by picking Pockets they maintained their Debaucheries. He was addicted to Gaming, Drinking, Blaspheming, Whoring, and other Vices, incident to these wicked Creatures, and was altogether irreclaimable. He was a notorious Contemner and Neglecter of all Religion, and a Despiser of Publick Worship. He owned he had been a notorious Thief and a Pick-Pocket, but alledged his Prosecutor was mistaken in some Things, with Respect to his Deposition against him. Though he had been formerly a good Scholar, yet he was now grosly ignorant of Re

ligion, but appeared very desirous of Instruction, and wept much because of his Wickedness, acknowledging his Punishment to be a most deserv'd Judgment upon him. He behaved well under his Misfortunes, and professed a deep Penitence. He believed in Christ, repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all Men.

John Richardson , was indicted (with John Lovell , not taken) for assaulting John Cuttings on the King's Highway, in the Parish of St. Mary, Whitechapel , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Hat, value five Shillings, April the 28th.

John Richardson , 22 Years of Age, born of honest mean Parents, his Father a Sailor, gave him no Education; he was put out to a Carver in the Miorics, and served most of his Time; then taking to bad Company, he left his Master's Service, and joined to a Gang of Thieves at that End of the Town, living by stealing Fowls, wet Linnen, and other Things from Out-houses. At first he denied the Robbery he was convicted of, but after the Dead-Warrant came down, and there was no Hopes of Life, he confessed the robbing John Cuttings as sworn against him, and that he had been a most notorious Offender, having been addicted to all Manner of Vice, especially to the Company of bad Women, who had a chief Hand in his Ruin, and hurrying him headlong to Destruction, for they advised him to rob and thieve, and to those Courses that brought him to his ignominious Death. He was hard-hearted and not duly affected with his pitiful Circumstances, but always behaved decently and quietly. He was very ignorant of Religion, but I endeavoured what I could to instruct him in the most familiar Way. He was dull of Hearing, and slow of Understanding. He professed his Faith in Christ; that he repented of all his grievous Sins, and was in Peace with all the World.

John Purdey , of St. Mary-le-bone , was indicted (with Robert Meredith , not taken) for assaulting Emanuel Slater , in a certain open Field near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Cloth coat, val. 10 s. 6 d. a Pair of Brass-buckles, val. 2 d. a Pair of Leather gloves, val. 2 d. May the 29th.

6. John Purdey , 46 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Kent , who gave him little or no Education) and what he had, was almost quite forgot. When he was of Age, his Father bred him to his own Business of a Slater , and by that Employment he liv'd in the Country, as he did afterwards when he came to London . He was seven Years a Soldier , and serv'd in the Wars of Flanders , in divers Sieges, of Bouchain , Villeroy , Doway , &c. When he left the Army, and came Home, he liv'd in the other End of the Town, about St. Giles's Pound . He married a Wife, follow'd his Business, and kept a Publick-house , but they not agreeing together, he took to lewd Women, and his Wife married another Man. He had been taken up, try'd for some Crime before this, but was acquitted. He was an idle, negligent, swearing, drunken Fellow, and seldom cared for any Business, which, together with the bad Company he kept, brought him to Disgrace and Ruin. As to the Crime he was convicted of, he own'd his pawning the Coat, but alledg'd it was given to him, not taken by him. He told a long Story of meeting by Accident with Emanuel Slater , and two Men in the Fields, and that falling into idle Chat, they came to Town in Company, and went into a Gin-cellar, where they drank thirty-seven Quarterns of Gin; by this Time all of them being fuddl'd, they went to sleep in the Brick-fields , where Slater gave him the Coat to pawn. This, and some other Accounts he gave; but when I show'd him the Improbability and Inconsistency of his Story, he could not deny the Truth of the Evidence, as it was given against him. He was a silly, unthinking Creature, but behav'd tolerably well, and was quiet under his Misfortunes.

N. B. Katharine Lenge receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for a Fortnight, the Morning before they were executed, by Six o'Clock.

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

THE Morning they went out, I read Prayers to them in Chapel, and they appear'd very serious and devout. After I had done Praying by them, they were carried from Newgate in two Carts, between Ten and Eleven o'Clock in the Forenoon to Tyburn. When they came to the Place of Execution, they were very attentive and serious, repeating the Lord's Prayer and the Creed. They said, they had nothing more to add to their former Confessions, but desir'd the Prayers of the Spectators, and to take Warning by their ignominious Deaths, and not follow ill Practices, which was the Occasion of their being brought here to suffer this untimely End. They all went off the Stage, crying to God to have Mercy on them, and that the Lord Jesus would receive their Spirits.

Totterdale said, he was a most vicious, drunken, swearing and blaspheming Fellow, and that he desir'd Mercy from God, Forgiveness from Men. Barrow said, he had had good Education, and was encourag'd by his Parents and Friends, but all to no Purpose. Cotton adher'd to his former Confessions, and exhorted all to take Warning by his untimely End.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

IT has been customary to give the Publick a farther Account of the unfortunate Creatures who are the Subjects of these Papers, than what is contained in the preceeding Part; for Insincerity and Prevarication is too constantly discover'd in these unhappy Wretches, by those appointed to attend them in their last Moments. The truest Accounts of themselves, and of their Offences, are generally to be collected from their scatter'd Papers, and from the Discoveries they make therein to their particular Friends and old Companions.

We shall accordingly begin with the Account which was given of himself by,

John Totterdale , who was born at North Curry in Sommersetshire , and was brought up to Husbandry altogether, he had been married 12 Years to his Wife, when he committed this Fact, and by her had had 6 Children, 2 of which are now alive, and are (by the Interest of Mr. Paul a Brewer in Westminster) provided for in Westminster Workhouse, since their unhappy Father's Confinement; for tho' the Mother of this unhappy Man is still alive, at Taunton-Dean, yet her Circumstances will not allow her for these her Grand-children.

Frequent have been the Uproars between him and his Wife, and for this 5 or 6 Years last past, the barbarous Usage she received from him, has been known to all who lived near them. He had but very little to say in Excuse of his horrid Crime, and the whole Time that he was in Custody he appeared stupid, and sullen, and very seldom spoke to any one. Two or three Days after he had been in the Gate house, the Deceased's Sister went to see him; she cry'd - O John! John! how could you be so barbarous as to murder your Wife! He replied, The Devil over powered me, - I was push'd on by the Devil, both to begin and finish the Deed - I cannot recall or undo what I have done, - but I wish I could bring back my poor unhappy, unprepared Wife from the Grave again.

He was asked why he did not endeavour to make his Escape after he had committed the Fact, instead of continuing in the Room with his murder'd Wife? His Answer was, that he did intend to have got away, but as he was coming out of the Room from the dead Woman, he imagin'd he heard a Voice saying, John, John, stay, - what have you done, - you can't go off, and from that Instant he had no Power to stir.

While he was in Custody in the Gate-house, he was visited often by one M - t F - r, with whom he used to keep Company; she embrac'd him, and publickly declared, That if he should happen to be Transported, she would go with him at all Events, which being heard by some young Gentlemen of Westminster School, they resented the impudent Behaviour of the Creature, and it was with some Difficulty she escaped Discipline in Tuttle Fields.

He declared that he was not afraid to suffer the ignominious Death that was before him, nor did he desire to avoid it; if (said he) my Sentence had been, not only that I should die, but that I should die by Piece-meal, - by suffering Tortures, as such a Criminal as I must have given up Life in some other Nations, yet that would have been welcome to me: -'tis my Crime (added he) and not my Punishment that affects me.

The Day the Dead Warrant came down to Newgate, he was acquainted that he was included therein, and that he must die on Wednesday next; to which he answer'd, - the Lord's Will be done; I am ready to die, I am willing to die; - only I bg of God that I may not (tho' I deserve it) die an eternal Death, and tho' I die out of this World for my heinous Crimes, and aggravated Offences, yet I hope 'tis not impossible for me to be forgiven - not impossible I should live for ever in a better State, and seeming in a sort of Transport, he cry'd out, - God bless his Majesty and my honourable Judges, they have done me no wrong, they are just, 'tis I that have offended, and have been guilty of the unnatural Murder of my poor Wife, the Lord be more merciful to me than I was to her, or else I perish. Then he desir'd

those that might have received any Injuries from him to forgive him, as he forgave all who at any Time had injur'd or offended him.

The following is a Copy of a LETTER which Totterdale sent to Mr. Paul a Brewer in Westminster.

Mr. Paul. This from your humble Servant John Totterdale .

SIR,

' I Return you a thousand Thanks for all your 'great Kindness to my 2 Children, whom you ' have been so good as to take Care of, since I ' have been under my unhappy Misfortunes; I ' hope God will recompence you for it, the Blessing ' of Almighty God be with you and yours, hoping the Lord will make you Recompence and ' yours; and I pray God prosper you and yours, ' as long as you live, for the extraordinary Favour done unto my Children. My Prayers to ' God for all Friends and Neighbours, hoping ' that they won't reflect upon my poor aged Mother and my two Children, for my Misfortune ' that has befell me, which I never intended; nor ' did I ever think of coming to such a shameful ' End, which I hope God in his great Power will ' have Mercy on my poor Soul, and forgive me ' all my Sins, as I put my Trust in him; and I ' beg (if the Favour is not too great) of all Love ' that you would desire all such Friends that ' shall come to see me Dye, that they will be so ' good as not to let the Surgeons have my Body, ' but to give me their Assistance, for my Brother ' and other Friends have promised me so to do; ' which I hope in God they will, for my desire is ' to lay by my Wife if possible I can. I beg of all ' Love that my Acquaintance that comes, that ' they will be so good as to assist my Body to some ' convenient House just by the Place where I did ' live, which I hope in God they will; and in so ' doing, I shall be thankful for it. So to the Lord ' I recommend my Soul, and the blessing of Almighty God be with you and yours for ever. ' Amen.

N. B. I must beg your Patience for a few Words more, and then I shall conclude: Some Persons who were Witnesses against me at my Tryal happened to be Drinking at my House at the same Time the Quarrel began between me and my Wife, and perceiving me in a violent Passion with her, yet they never offer'd to stir to appease me, tho' one of them came up Stairs and saw her lying on the Floor, which if they had been so kind as to have done, she would have been alive now, and I should not have suffered that ignominious Death, which I shall To-morrow. I freely forgive every Person that appear'd against me at my Trial, as I hope God of his infinite Mercy will forgive me.

From my Cell in Newgate, October 4, 1737.

J. TOTTERDALE.

When the Day of his Death was approaching a Reverend Divine, out of a compassionate Regard to his State, wrote him a Letter, which made a deep Impression on his Mind, and further'd him in the great Work that was before him; a Copy thereof follows,

For Mr. Totterdale in Newgate.

Mr. Totterdale.

THO' I have but little Knowledge of you yet I am exceedingly troubled that you should commit such a barbarous inhumane Fact, as the Murder of your poor Wife, by which you have brought your self to such a shameful and untimely End. You have but a little while to live in this World; I beseech you to lose no Minute of it, but fast and pray. Retire from Company, and cry mightily to God for Mercy, God has ordain'd a Saviour for Sinners, his Son Jesus Christ, who is able to save the worst of Sinners, and will not cast out any that come to him in a penitent Manner, with a lively Faith in him. This is the only Way of Salvation; here spend all that little remaining part of your Time, and I pray God grant you Mercy through the Merit of his Son, and Sanctification of his holy Spirit.

It is but a few Hours and you will appear before your Judge; therefore bend all the Powers of your Soul to seek Reconciliation with him, thro' the great Peace-Offering, the Sacrifice of our Saviour on the Cross.

For other Things I leave you to the Direction of the Reverend Mr. Guthrie, recommending you in my Prayers to the Mercy of Almighty God thro' his Grace.

I am your Friend,

J. W.

Westminster, Oct. 3, 1737.

John Purdy seem'd very regardless of his Condition, and his utmost Concern was to extenuate the Offence he was charg'd with. He would frequently tell the rest of his Fellow Suffer's (who behav'd more decently than himself) that they need not make so much to do about their Repentance and their repenting, for he could repent himself as clean from all his Sins in half an Hour as well as in 7 Years. For such Speeches he was reprov'd, and made sensible that sincere Repentance, such as necessary to Salvation, was a great and difficult Work; that it imply'd not only a Concern and Sorrow for Sin, but an entire Change of Heart and Mind, and a newness of Disposition and Spirit, as well as of Life. Upon such Remonstrances, he would seem to be affected, and would sometimes complain of the badness and hardness of his Heart. He was not willing to own the Fact (as a Robbery) for which he suffer'd, no-(he said) he never robb'd any poor Person, but only such as were able to bear it, and they would not suffer by what he robb'd them of, and Master, says he, there's no great Sin in that. He was told, that his Duty and Interest obliged him to behave in a more serious Manner, that he ought to consider himself as one who had but few Moments more to live. Why, Master says he, I can't perswade myself that I have committed any great Crime in robbing the Rich, - I think I have not, for to let you know Sir, said he, all the People I used to rob had too much Money, and I had too little. Thus he constantly endeavour'd to extenuate his Crimes, and would fain have appear'd - tho' a Thief - a conscientious one. He said, he wish'd he could have known before he took his Trial, that he should have been capitally convicted, for then he would have dy'd with some of his own Companions, and would jamm'd 2 or 3 of them for Fun; for he could he said, have made some Discovery of the Persons that were concern'd with him, but since if he did it now, they would not be hang'd with him, therefore he was resolv'd to make no Discovery at all.

Thus he behav'd, and shew'd how little sensible he was of his Condition, and how unconcern'd at his approaching Death; he was always laughing and jesting, to divert himself and others, instead of preparing himself for his shameful End.

The following is an exact Copy of a PAPER which the abovesaid Malefactor delivered, and desired might be publish'd.

The dying Words of John Purde , desirin to be delivir'd and publicht, and wich is to be executed on Wednesday next at Tyburn.

The last dying Words are,

I Declare that I never saw the Man that appear'd against me, and cast me, 'till Merrady the Bricklayr and Edward Salter , brought him to mee ware I was a drinking, they maken of Agreement to pawn the Man's Cote before ever I saw them, and desiring of me John Purde to pawn this Cote littil thinking of any Harm I did the same, but the Prosecutor meeting with the Thief-takers, purswaded the Fellow to sware the Robberry on me, for the Look of the Reward, and so I bag of all Love that all that knows me petty my Misfortune and hoppin that all will take great Care wat Company tha get in for seing my Misfortune, I one I have been guilty of seuearl littil trifling Things before, and keping Company with lewd Weomen wich has brote me to this Misfortune, and hoppin as I suffer that no Body will reflect on my Dear Wife, and my poor Babe, for they can't help my Misfortuen, but if pleasin God had restor'd me, I would have been as good as ever I was bad, but since I must die this Death. I am very willing, but as my Life is sworn away by – A -, and N -, this is to satisfy the World, that thay don't do it for the Good of the Countrey, but for the gane of the Money. The Prosecutor was a poor silly contrey Fellow, so God forgive them for telling him to swear against me, and so I hope he will receive me into his blessed Kingdom, as for my dear Wife, I hope God will be with her, and for my dear Child, I hope God will mark him with Grace, and so no more, but thes are the last dying Words of me

JOHN PURDE.

The following is the Account which John Goswell gave of himself.

I Am now about 24 Years of Age, born of mean Parents at Wimbleton , in Surrey , who put me out Apprentice to one Mr. Heath, a Butcher , in Butcher-Row ; I served 7 Years Faithfully, and all that Time I bore a good Character. When I lest Mr. Heath, I went to one Mr. Pool, a Butcher, at Fulham , and lived some Time as a Journeyman with him. I likewise lived with Mr Franklyn in the same Town, - with Mr. Radford at Little Chelsea , and with Daniel Gleaver at Hampstead . Then I came to Bloomsbury Market , and served Mr. Brown a little while, then left him and went into Mr. James Deputy 's Service, in Tothill street , Westminster . My Character was good in all these Places, but at last falling into an ill Woman's Company, I neglected my Business, lost my Credit, and then I took to breaking open Butcher's Shops in the Night-time in Clare-market . The first Shop was Mrs. West's, and I stole from thence the Carcass of a Sheep, worth about fifteen or sixteen Shillings.

The next was Mr. - 's Shop (the Name I can't recollect) and from thence I carried as much Meat as I could stand under, - in short I stripped the Shop, and being very heavy laden, I could not make that Haste that I should have done; however, I got my Load as far as Lincoln's Inn-Fields , and perceiving some People to follow me at a Distance, I was afraid of being taken with my Cargo upon me; but meeting with a young Butcher of my Acquaintance (out of Place) I told him I was going to Newgate-Market with Meat, but I wanted sadly to make Water, and I must beg of him to help me down with my Load; he very readily did so, and then I desired him to stay by the Basket till I (modestly) stepped to the Wall, - and in the mean Time p came the Watchmen, and took Man and Basket and carried them to the Watch-House. The Owner of the Meat was alarmed by the Watch, when they found his Shop broke, so he came and claimed the Goods, and the poor Fellow was sent to Tothill-Fields Bridewell, as I had like to have found to my Cost, for not knowing he was there confined, I went thither to see one of my Friends; while I was talking with him, the Butcher observed me, and knowing me again, he charged me with being the Man that desired him to watch the Basket. I absolutely denied the Charge, and pleaded Ignorance in the Affair; so after he had been some Time confined, his Friends made up the Affair, and he was discharged. I was concern'd at bringing him into all this Trouble and Expence, but I could not help him without bringing myself into the Scrape. The Man now lives at Mr. Lewis's, a Butcher, the Corner of the Play-House by Covent-Garden.

Another time I broke open Mr. Waller's Slaughter-House, and found there a Whole Heifer hung up against the next Day's Market; I could not move the whole Carcass, so I cut all the Meat from the Bones, and carried it away in Baskets. I desire this may be mentioned particularly, because I am informed that a young Man was accused of this Fact, and whipped publickly for it. As I am going out of the World I can only do him this Justice, to own I committed this Robbery by myself, a little after I had left Mr. Deputy's Service in Tothill-street , and that no one was concerned with me in the same.

Several other Shops in the Market I broke open and stripped of the Meat therein, which I always carried to Billingsgate or Rag-Fair , and there I disposed of it for what I could get, for as it came cheap enough to me, I refused nothing that was offered. - Many a good Joint of Murton worth 2 s. or Half a Crown, have I sold there for 6 d. or 8 d.

Some Time ago Wilson, Lovell, and myself, met a young Man between four and five in the Morning in the Road to Highgate , we robb'd him of 7 s. a Pair of Stockings, and a new silk Handkerchief; the Man begged for Six-pence again to carry him on his Journey, so I gave him Six-pence and left him. When I was called to the Bar to receive Sentence of Death, who should stand at the Corner of the Bar, but this very Man; he asked me if I was not the Person that stopped him and robbed him in the Road to Highgate ? I knew I should be hang'd, so I thought I could not be in a worse Condition if I owned this, - so I told him I was the very Man, and (says I) by the same Token I gave you Six-pence again. That's very true (says he) and here's the very Piece you returned me, I kept it to produce against you if I should have had the good Luck to catch you, but since you are to be hanged by somebody else, I'll give it you again; so I returned to Newgate Six-pence richer than I came out on't.

Another Time I robbed a young Fellow that liv'd at Mr. Porter's in St. James's-Market; - I met him in the Street going to Smithfield-Market , I knew he had Money, so I stopped him, and took from him fifteen Guineas, four Shillings, and Seven-pence, about four o'Clock in the Morning.

About two Years ago I was going down to Deptford early in the Morning with one James Lamb , and we met a Ship Carpenter and his Wife; I stopped them, and took from the Man 25 s. and Three-pence Half-penny, and a Penn'orth of Tobacco. He very civilly told us we were more welcome to the Money than the Tobacco, so we gave him that again. I thought if we searched them narrowly we might find something else, so I drove the Man, and Lamb drove the Woman into a Field full of Cows, at some Distance from the Road. When we had them here, Lamb was resolved to strip them stark naked, and take all their Cloaths. I oppos'd it, because it was exceeding cold, and determined not to carry away their Cloaths. But we made them both pull off Shoes, Stockings, Shirt, Shift, - they stripped themselves as naked as they came into the World. Then we swore they should dance Adam and Eve three Times round the Field, which they did, and complaining of our Barbarity and the Coldness of the Weather, I told them I would be kinder to them than they imagined, for I would look out for something piping hot for them, and just as I had told them this, a Cow happened to Dung, so I brought them to the Place, and Lamb and I stood over them and made them eat it all up, before we would suffer them to put their Cloaths on. We stood by them till they were dress'd, and as the Man was putting on his Shoes, Lamb d - 'd him because his Shoes were best, and swore he must exchange with him, telling him, Exchange was no Robbery. This Lamb was afterwards put into an Information by one Fesset, an Accomplice, and was tried, convicted, and transported.

About half a Year ago, being out of Business, I got me a Link, and was plying in Fleet street , between 11 and 12 o'Clock at Night, and met a Gentleman very well dress'd, and very much in Liquor. He call'd out Link - Link; so I went up to him, and pull'd off my Hat, and told him, I was not a common Linkman , but I would light him a little Way (and indeed I did not intend to light him any farther than a proper Place to get his Money) so he told me he would give me Half-a-crown to light him but into Cheapside; I told him it was very proper some-body should go with him to take Care of him, and prevent his being robb'd, and that - I said, as he was in Liquor, I would do for him, as much as he had been my own Father; so in Order to take Care of him, I conducted him along Fleet-ditch , and it was at the Time when they were filling up the Ground where the Market now is. He told me, he was afraid I carry'd him out of the Way. I said, no Sir, I am only looking for a proper Place to cross over, and that was true enough; for I was looking for the softest, muddiest Place, and thro' I led him, up to his Knees. Friend, says he, this is a sad dirty Place; Aye, says I, but there's a very good Bottom, Sir. When I had got him into the worst Place I could pick out - my Foot slipp'd - down we both came, and out went the Link. D - n you, Sir, says I, what made you throw me down? Friend, says he, you threw me down - but I don't mind dirting my Cloaths, prithee help me out. That I will, Sir, says I, and immediately I ran my Hand into his Breeches Pocket, and pulled out a green silk Purse, with two Guineas and eleven Shillings in Silver. Then I began to feel for his Watch and Rings, but he roar'd out Murder – Watch - so loud, that the Watchman came running down on both Sides the Ditch, before I could get away. I found myself beset on both Sides, so I crept as far from the Place as I could with Safety, and then I call'd out Watch – Watch - here's a Gentleman in Distress, I suppose he fell down in the Mud, if some-body don't help him out, he may be smother'd. Whereabouts is he? Cry'd they. This Way it must be, says I, so I went with them to the Place, and while they were all helping him out of the Mud, I got away, and ran up Blackhorse-alley , into Fleet-street , and escaped.

Another Time I was loitering about Essex-stairs , at the Thames-side, to see what I could get, and about 9 o'Clock at Night, an elderly Man came down with a young Woman, and called Suller. It happen'd there was never a Waterman there, for 'twas very dark and very cold, so I ply'd them, and get into a Boat that lay at the Stairs. I found I was to carry the Woman over the Water to the old Barge-house. She would not go, unless the old Man would go with her. He did not seem willing to go; but I told him, if he pleased to step into the boat, I must come back again myself, and I would bring him over with me. Upon this, they both got into the Boat, and I landed the Woman at the Barge-houses; but when I had got him back into the Middle of the Thames, I robb'd him of forty-five Shillings; but I bid him not be frighted, for I must get a shore myself, and would take Care of him, if he would be quiet; so I row'd up to some Lighters, that lay out in the River, at the Side of a Wharf, by Essex-stairs and when I had flung the Sculls into the ighter, I got up myself, then

I pushed the Boat off into the River, and ran away over the Lighters. How he got a shore I cannot imagine, for I push'd him off without either Sculls or Stretcher, and some little Time afterwards, I happen'd into an Alehouse in Water-lane , Black-fryars , and the Minute I stepp'd into the House, I thought I saw the Man I had robb'd on the Thames, and I was immediately confirmed in my Thoughts, for he immediately cry'd out, Sculler, Sculler, upon which I took to my Heels and run away.

Several Times have I been in great Danger of being taken, in the very committing of a Robbery, and often have unexpectedly escaped. Once I was coming from Dartford to London , almost naked, and without a Shirt; as I came along, I saw some Linnen drying in a Garden, so I made bold to get over the Fence, and put one of the Shirts upon my Back A Woman that belong'd to the House, came up to me, and I asked her, which was the Way to London, she told me, but pray, says she, what do you do with that Shirt? 'Tis none of yours. That's very true, Madam, says I; but as some Folks have two Shirts, and I have never a one, I thought it no great Crime to borrow one. I could have got away from the Woman, but a Man took me and carry'd me before a Justice, where the Woman was very favourable, and I telling a comical Story, at the Woman's Request, I was discharged, and she gave me the Shirt, and Half a-crown to get rid of me.

In April last, I met a Gentleman's Servant coming from Rumford , and I robb'd him of two Guineas and Three-pence Halfpenny. I was very much fuddled when I robb'd him, so I went into a Field some Distance from the Road, and lay'd me down to sleep under a Haycock. The Footman watch'd me, and follow'd me into the Field. Upon seeing him come after me, I got up and went to him, and for his Assurance in offering to come after me, ty'd him Neck and Heels; then I took off his Buckskin Breeches, and after I had sufficiently flogg'd him with them, I carry'd them away with me. About a Month afterwards, I met this very Man in the Street, and he ran after me, and cry'd, stop Thief; but I show'd him a better Pair of Heels than his own, and so luckily escaped from him.

I was try'd about two Years ago at the Old-Bailey , for breaking open a Still-house at Fleet-ditc h, the Corner of the Meal-market; tho' I had the good Luck to be acquitted, yet I was Guilty sure enough; for I did break-open the Door, and not into the Warehouse, where I found nothing I could carry away but two live Turkeys, and I was unwilling to lose my Labour quite; so after I had put my Mouth to the Cock of a cherry-brandy Barrel, and had drank pretty heartily, I carry'd them out; but the Watchman apprehended me, and I was committed and try'd for the Fact.

On the 9th of June last, Lovell and myself, met a Malt-man, between Kingston and Windsor , and we robb'd him of nine Guineas, seven Shillings and Two-pence Halfpenny. To prevent his pursuing us, we made him dismount, and I threw the Bridle and Saddle into a Ditch, and turn'd his Horse loose.

As to the Robbery of Mr. Christian, for which I die - 'tis true enough - Barrow and Wilson, and I, did certainly rob him - 'twas between twelve and one o'Clock Barrow stopp'd him, and Wilson took out of his Pocket, a Purse with five or six Counters in it, and a Guinea, and six Shillings and Two-pence. I assisted, and thought we had made a good Booty, 'till we discover'd the Peices in the Purse to be only Counters. I had only my Share of the two Shillings, and half a Pint of Gin, which we bought with the Halfpence; for Wilson and Barrow (like two Rogues) sunk the Guinea upon me, and divided that between themselves, at Kisby's in Well-street .

I not only got Money with my Companions abroad, but my Wife, or Mistress, pick'd up a Penny now and then at Home; in particular, a certain Gentleman belonging to the Law, (not a Mile from the Temple) one Night pick'd up my Woman, and she carried him to our Lodgings, which were then in King's-Head-Court by Gough-Square . He insisted upon clean Sheets before he would go to Bed. We told him he must pay for them if he had them; so he gave us a Guinea to get them, and we pick'd four more out of his Pocket, and a Watch, which I gave to a Friend of mine to dispose of for me; he happened to offer it to Mr. D - r, who was the Person that made it. Mr. D – r knew it, so he stopped the Watch and the Man that brought it, and sent for the Gentleman that owned it. When he came he took his Watch, and sent the Man that brought it about his Business, least he should be obliged to give an Account how he lost it. Some Time afterwards a very noted Highwayman robbed the Gentleman of this very Watch, and was hanged for the Fact.

After Lovell and I had robbed the Malman between Kingston and Windsor , I came to London , where I met with Wilson, the Evidence upon my Trial, he ask'd me to go and drink with him; I told him I had no Money; he said if I would go and drink with him, he would get my Pistols out

of Pawn, and then we would go into the Country and get some. I went accordingly with him to Will. James 's House, and James immediately sent for one Brock, and carried me before Justice Poulson, who committed me to New-Prison , and from thence I came here.

I always lived an uneasy, dissatisfy'd Life, and when I got Money, I used to spend it idly and in bad Company. I was always afraid to walk the Streets, or look any one in the Face; and was always under a continual Uneasiness of Mind, till I cheared my Spirits, and raised my Courage with Liquors.

My last Request is, That none would reflect on my Friends for my shameful Life; in particular I hope no one will blame my Sister, for she has been very good to me; she put me out Apprentice, and found me in Necessaries all my 7 Years; in Return of which I have been very ungrateful, and have behaved to her with the greatest Cruelty and Kindness.

'Tis a Custom for the Bellman of St Sepulchre's, to repeat some Verses to the Prisoners the Night before they die; at which Time Goswell threw out of his Cell the following Lines, by way of Return for the Bellman's Verses.

I.

Thou art the Bellman for this Night,

Who com'st to let me know,

That I To-morrow Morn must die,

And be a publick Show.

II.

I hope my Death will Warning give,

To all that then attend,

And by my sad Example tanght,

They may their Lives amend.

III.

Avoid the dang'rous Paths we've trod,

Nor wilfully offend,

That God whose Judgments all are just,

Whose Kingdom has no End.

IV.

He's merciful to all that do

The Promises believe;

If we on Christ, his Son, rely,

He will our Sins forgive.

V.

Now,-now, repent of all your Sins,

For your Salvation's Sake;

And beg, you of his Mercy may

Hereafter all partake.

VI.

For all our Sins our Saviour Christ

Has made a Recompence;

If we believe in him, we shall

Be sav'd when we go hence.

VII.

In him will I put all my Trust,

His Mercy's ever sure;

With him I hope my Soul shall dwell

In Joy, for evermore.

VIII.

Then 'wake my Soul, arise and pray,

To God thy Morning Duty pay;

Shake off dull Sloth, and willing rise

To pay thine early Sacrifice.

IX.

Awake my Soul, on him reflect,

Whose Eyes do all thy Ways inspect:

Lord, I my Vows to thee renew,

Scatter my Sins, as Morning-Dew.

X.

Awake my Soul, live these Hours o'er

As thou art now to live no more;

O guard me least I should transgress;

Guide me, and my Endeavours bless.

XI.

Awake my Soul, as Noon day clear,

May thy Resolves t'amend appear;

Return thy Hopes of Heaven's Grace,

In ardent Love and humble Praise.

XII.

Awake my Soul, awake my Heart,

And with bless'd Angels bear thy Part,

Who rest not,-but unwearied sing,

Holy is their Eternal King.

XIII.

May I, like you, in him delight,

And keep him while I live in Sight;

Like you perform my Maker's Will,

O may I never more do Ill.

XIV.

O had I Wings, to Heav'n I'd fly,

Lord! that Defect do thou supp'y;

O wing my Soul with warm Desire,

That I to thee may now aspire.

XV.

Glory to Thee who safe hast kept

Me, and refresh'd me while I slept;

Lord, I from Death must soon awake,

May I from endless Life partake.

XVI.

I find that Heaven is where thou art,

Then never Lord, from me depart;

I've found, and know, it's Hell to be,

Banish'd for ever, Lord, from thee.

XVII.

Then Lord, in what I do or say,

Thee may I glorify this Day;

For Lord I've found it's Hell to be

For ever banish'd, Lord! from thee.

And this I've wrote, - this is my last Farewell,

Hoping my Soul shall ne'er descend to Hell.

John Goswel , now lying under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate , and who must be Executed this Morning at Tyburn .

The following is the Account that JOHN COTTON gave of himself two Days before his Execution.

I AM now about 20 Years of Age, and was born at Westminster , of poor Parents; my Father dying while I was young, left my Mother with two Children besides myself, but it pleased God to raise her Friends, who got my Brother into the Bluecot Hospital, and me into King Charles's Hospital at Westminster , where I continued six Years, and then was bound Apprentice to a Mopstick Turner , one Mr. Chambers Grays Inn lane . I serv'd him about 5 Years, then getting acquainted with disorderly People, who spent a great deal of Money, I neither car'd to leave their Company, nor could I bear to look nigardly among them; this rove me to some Perplexity, which a Woman observing, that was one of our Company, she put me into the Way of picking Pockets, and brought me acquainted with some young Fellows who lived in the same Way. With them I follow'd the T about 2 Years off and on, and now and then I practis'd the Whalebone Lay, in this Branch of the Business I followed with one Rickets, who was the Man that took the Money out of the Drawer, in the Bar of the Rummer-Tavern in Chancery-Lane. He went away with the last Transports - After I was engaged in this Way, I would sometimes bethink my self, and take to my Business again, but my Companions were eternally after me, and would get me out, and give me Liquor; when I was drunk, I used to be easily persuaded to go out with them upon these Lays again, and tho' I committed many little Robberies, yet I never was confin'd but once before this Time, and that was in Old Bridewell , where I was sent for stealing a Handkerchief, and after I had been kept some Time to hard Labour I was discharged. Mr. Carter a Hog Butcher in Sharp's-Alley in Chick-Lane, and Mr. Harvey a Sheep's Head Man in the same Lane, could have done me some Service, if they had appear'd on my Trial, - they knew that Daniel Grundey and I were not in Company the Night the Robbery was committed. It may be imagin'd, that I would not have given the Prosecutor the Note which he produced on my Trial, if I had not been guilty, but the Truth was, I was in Hopes by giving him that Note, that I should have prevented the Scandal of such a Charge from falling upon me.

I was taken just by the Thatch'd-House in Chick-Lane , where I had been drinking with Daniel Grundey , Thomas Drinkwater , and John Slade , and was going to work, when I was taken. I hope none will reflect on my Mother, for if I had taken her Council, I had never come to this Place.

The following Account Robert Barrow , otherwise Berbadoes , otherwise Runwell gave of himself.

THAT he was born at Mampas , within 10 Miles of Chester , where he was put to School, but not liking Confinement of any sort, he us'd to stay from School, to lye out all Night. When he was about 5 or 6 Years old, he run away from his Parents to Liverpool ; there he bound himself Apprentice to Capt. Nichols , who was then going a Voyage to Antegoa . When the Ship arrived there, he ran away and left her, and hid himself in the Country till the Ship sail'd from thence. While he was there, he used to go to the Sugar Houses, and beg hot Liquor and Yams of the Negroes for his Subsistence, but Necessity

pinching him, he bound himself to a Planter, and was to have had the Over-sight of his Sugar Works , and his Negroes, but not being content with that Way of Life, he run away from him, and went to St. John's Town , the principal Town in Antegoa ; there he bound himself to Capt . John Travers , and went with him to a Dutch Island call'd Tattola; while he was there he robb'd him of 2 Pieces of Eight, and then ran away from him to Barbadoes , in a Ship belonging to Captain Clay, with him he went to an Island call'd San Lazee , to cut Timber, and from thence to St. Kitts . While the Ship lay at St. Kitts , he was accused of stealing some Things, and being afraid of Punishment, he jumped over-board, and swan a-shore, and got into the Woods every Night, having nothing to live upon but what he begg'd from poor People that kept Sheep upon the Mountains. From hence he got to a Place call'd Back Starr , in a Canoe, and from thence to St. Thomas's , where he shipped himself on Board a Sloop with a Dutchman: From hence he went to the Silena's , and here by a violent Wind at N E. they lost their Ship, she struck on the Sands, and they were all forc'd to shift for themselves; the Company had no sooner got on Shore, but the Spaniards came down, and stripp'd them of their Cloaths, they took even the Shoes off their Feet, and drove them to a little Hut up in the Country made with Reed, and gave them a little Corn to eat. Here the Spaniards watch'd them that they might not get away from them; but he and another gave them the Slip, and got away into the Woods, where they lived 6 Days upon raw Wood, Crabs, and what grew in the Woods. At last they ventur'd out into a Savannah, where they saw a House built with Reeds, this was one of the Spaniards Hunting Houses, for they frequently went 30 or 40 Miles to hunt wild Cattle, and often take up their Lodging in such Houses; they are built upon Poles above the Ground, and the Entrance into them is by a Ladder. Barrow got into this House to see for something to eat, and there he found a great Roll of Tobacco and some Fruit, which the Spaniards call Bernadoes; but as he and his Companions were retreating to the Woods again, they heard a Noise, and presently 3 or 4 Men on Horseback rode up to them, and threat'ned to cut their Heads off if they did not return to the Place from whence they had escaped, they could make no Resistance, and so being ty'd to the Horses Tails they were brought to the rest of their Companions again, and here they stay'd about a Fortnight longer, and liv'd very hard.

There was fourteen of them in all, and being weary of this Confinement, they all agreed to venture away together; but Barrow remembering the Canoe that belonged to the Vessel, he put his Companions in Mind of that; so they hall'd it up into the Woods, in the Night-time, and then they watch'd their Opportunity, and all got away, and lay hid in the Woods, for several Days, venturing down upon the Bay, only at Night, to seek for Provisions. After they had lain concealed here a great while, they ventur'd to a little Town, where the People were tolerably Civil to them; but at last they grew weary of their Company, and so bought them a large Canoe to carry them to Crab-Island , and furnish'd them with Provisions to get rid of them. They kept with their Canoe, always as near the Shores as they could; and whenever they came to any Island, where they imagin'd they could kill any-thing for their Subsistance, they used to draw their Canoe a-shore, and hide her, while they search'd the Place. This Trade they follow'd, 'till one Morning, they unhappily stav'd their Canoe, as they were getting her a-shore. Then they were altogether at a Loss, and were forced to betake themselves to the Woods in the Day-time, and at Night to come out for Provision. Sometimes they kill'd a wild Hog, and sometimes stole a Calf, which they brought into the Woods, and eat half roasted, and half raw.

This Course continued a great while; but one Day an old Spaniard and a Woman coming thro' the Woods on Horseback with a Load of Provision, they made up to them, and the Mate of the Vessel speaking good Spanish, he asked them for some Victuals; the old Spaniard left them some Pumpkins and Potatoes, and told them if they would stay till he came back again, he would bring them something else, and would take Care of them; and about a Fortnight afterwards he did send a Man and three Horses for them, and carried them to Bonavisto . While they were here in this Wood, one of their Companions dy'd, and buried him in the Woods.

They had not been long at Bonavisto , before Barrow observed small two-mast Vessels, which was came out a turtling, and she lay a great Way off from the Shore, but he swam to it and got on board, where he found the Men that belonged to her at Breakfast. He told them of the Distress his Companions were in, and they made to the Shore to relieve them, but when they came to land, there was not one of them to be found. Upon this Barrow ventured about to look for them, and while he was in the Search he met

a Man, who told him the Spaniards had received Intelligence where they lay hid; and while he was gone to the Fishing Vessel, they had carried them all away again to the Silena's. Barrow had lived with his Companions so long, that he was resolved not to forsake them, so away he journeyed to the Silena's , and lay two Nights in the Woods before he got to them.

The Spaniards now separated them, and put them to work at different Houses; Barrow was employ'd by a Man to beat Rice , and to keep the Parrots out of the Ground while it was growing. Here they lived about a Month, and then the People grew weary of them, and to get rid of them they got them at last a Canoe, and put six Spaniards into it with them, to help them to row; but the first Island they came to, the Spaniards pretended to go ashore to get Hogs for them; and while they were Hunting, Barrow and his Company went away with the Canoe to Crab Island , and left the Spaniards behind them.

While they were here, a Schooner came within Sight of the Island; Barrow made a Signal with some of their Rags on a Pole, which the Schooner observing, bore up to the Island and took them in, and carried them to St. Thomas's , where Barrow was taken ill of a Fever, but recovering, he shipp'd himself on board an English Brigantine, Capt. Lewis, and with him he came to London .

He had not been long at Home before he shipped himself on board the Pink, Captain Williams, bound for Guinea , at 45 s. per Month. From Guinea he went to Barbadoes , and from thence to Virginia , and from thence to London again. But while Barrow was at Guinea , he and the second Mate and two of the Men imagining the Captain did not use them well, they run away up into the Country, and were taken by the Negroes, and carried 30 Miles up the Country, they informed the Captain they had 4 of his Men in Custody and the Captain was forc'd to buy them of the Negroes again, the Negroes knew we must belong to him, because there was no other Ship in the Road. When the Captain had redeemed them, he carried them to Barbadoes , and there Richard Lightfoot the Quarter-Master , Thomas Kelly , Samuel Pollochy , and Barrow, all came to Agreement to leave the Ship, and not to go any farther with the Captain, so in the Night Time when they were all upon Watch, Barrow got over board and swan to a Boat which lay a-stern of another Vessel; this Boat he cut from the Vessel, and brought her to his Companions, who getting in, he carried them all a-shore, and they made the best of their Way up into the Country, they walked all Night, and in the Day Time slept in the Woods. One Evening Barrow ventur'd out about dusk, and went up to the Top of a Hill, looking round him, he observ'd a Thatch'd House at some Distance; he went there and found only a Woman in the House, who entertain'd him well for a Week, and then he and Lightfoot went to a Town call'd Spikes , and staid a Fortnight with one that knew Lightfoot. From thence they came to the Place where they had left their Ship, and at Night walk'd upon the Keys to see if it was gone, they found the Ship was sail'd, and Barrow was inform'd that the Captain would have given any Thing to have taken him, because he was sure the other Men would not have run away but at his Instigation.

After this, they went up into the Country, about a Mile to a Place call'd the Indian River, with about four or five Shillings in their Pockets between them. There they met with an old Woman, who entertain'd them for their Money, and afterwards gave them Credit for fifteen or sixteen Shillings. At this Woman's Door, they could see what Ships pass'd by the Place, and here they staid 'till the Expedition, Capt. Crawford, came by bound for London, and in her he came to London .

The following was the Account he gave of his Life after his Arrival.

AFter I had received my Wages, Capt. Crawford would have had me to have gone again with him, but it was too soon - my Money was not gone, and I never could bear the Thoughts of Working, or taking any Pains, while my Money lasted; had he staid 'till my Money was spent, he might have had my Company; but he did not, and while he was gone, my Money was spent, and I fell into Company, and went out a Thieving, and the first Companion I had was John Richardson , who is now in the Cells, and is to be hang'd with me. Our first Fact was but a small one - only a little Meat; but our next was in Company with Harry Flemming , who was try'd some Time ago for stealing thirteen or fourteen Pair of Buckskin Breeches: In his Company I used to go out every Night, about eleven or twelve o'Clock, and rob Yards of Linnen, and Out-houses of Pewter, Coppers and Saucepans; and this Trade I follow'd for some Time.

One Sunday Night Ricklesworth and I stole some Linnen out of a Yard at Wapping , and we went

to hide it in Stepney Fields , but were disturbed there; so we went from thence to Salt-Petr-Bank, and there we hid it; while we were doing it a Thief-taker that I knew seemed to take Notice of us, so I went up to him, and bid him be gone, or it should be worse for him; upon that he went off as I thought, and we went to Well-street ; when we came there I saw him again, so we took back to Stepney Fields , and from thence to a Night-House in Dark-House-Lane , where we eat some Bread and Cheese, and then we went to fetch the Linnen, but when we came to the Place where we had hid it, there we saw a Parcel of Watchmen posted behind the Bank, who jumped out upon us; I escaped, but they took Ricklesworth, and carried him before Justice Priestly, where he would have made himself an Evidence, but the Justice would not take his Information. The next Day I went to Kisby's, at the Windsor-Castle in Well street (whose House has been my Ruin) and while I was there, the Constable and another Man came in, I imagined they were looking for me, so I got out of the House, but was afraid to go Home to my Lodgings, so I went to the Glass-House in the Minories ; while I was there I saw them come in at an opposite Door, they came round and looked at me, and said I was not the Person; but I knew them, and was afraid if ey looked at me again, they would find me o be their Man; so in my Fright I ran into the Hole under the Furnace, and came out at the Hole on the other Side, the Fire continually dropping upon me all the Way; but I was no sooner got out on the other Side, than I was knocked down, and they told me I was in an Information for a Street-Robbery, asking me if I did not know one Ricklesworth? I said no; but they tied my Hands with my own Handkerchief, and carried me before Justice Priestly, and the Woman was sent for that lost the Linnen, but she would not swear to me nor the Linnen; however, we were both committed to Newgate, and there we staid till the next Sessions, and then I was discharged for want of Evidence, but Ricklesworth's Friends desired he might be detained in order to their sending him abroad.

I was no sooner discharged, but I took to my old Way with Flemming again, of robbing Out-houses. I had not been at Liberty fourteen Days before I was sent to Clerkenwell Prison , for stealing fourteen Holland Shirts. I was disturbed too soon in the committing this Fact, and therefore the People could not swear I had taken them, so I was discharged at Hicks's-Hall .

I went out again immediately, and was immediately taken up again for stealing 2 Hatts, for which Fact I was confin'd in Old Bridewell for 3 Weeks, and was then discharg'd.

I was no sooner at Liberty but Flemming and I robb'd a Yard belonging to an Ale-house at the Hermitage , of as much Linnen as was worth 40 or 50 l. which we brought away, and sold for about 5 l.

I was now got acquainted with James Wilson , and with him I began Street Robberies, the first Attempt I made with him was upon an Excise-Man in Ratcliffe-Highway , and we had but poor Encouragement, for he had no more than 2 s. about him, I looked at his Buckles, but he told me they were not Silver, they were only Prince's Metal; I told him I did not know how to believe him, and took them from him, but when I came to look at them, I found them to be Metal indeed.

The next Sunday Night we went into Spittle-fields , and in the Market we stopp'd a Man and a Woman, she run her Hand into her Pocket, and I could not get it out, I told her I must have her Money, and bid her make Haste with it, for People were coming, but she still kept fumbling in her Pocket, and at last pull'd out a long silk Purse, with one Piece in it, which I took for half a Crown; when I came to look at it I found it was but a Half-penny, and I heard afterwards that she had bragg'd of her cheating me, and that she had fumbled all her Silver out of her Purse, and had fobb'd me off with a Half-penny.

The next Robbery I committed was in Company only of Richardson, who is under Condemnation with me. I was out that Evening, but had no Design of committing any Robbery, however meeting with Richardson in Rosemary-Lane , as we stood talking together, a Sailor and 2 Whores came past us, we asked the Sailor which Way he was going? he told us over Tower-Hill ; we said we were glad of that, for we were going the same Way, and wanted Company.

As we went along, I took the Sailor aside, and begg'd of him, for Heaven's Sake, to let the Whores go about their Business; for (says I) they'll not only rob you, but they may give you the Pox, and to be robb'd and pox'd at the same Time, will be a sad Thing indeed; so he parted with them, and call'd them Whores, telling them, he was got into honest Men's Company now, who could not bear the Sight of such Cattle as they were. When they had left him, he was very fond of us, and we came very lovingly on, till we got to the Middle of the Hill, and

then I pull'd out a Knife, and gave it to Richardson - here Brother, says I - take hold of my Pistol; upon that, Richardson told him, if he made any Words, he was a dead Man. And Brother, says I, you have Money, we want it, and 'tis much better we should have it, then those nasty Creatures you was in Company with: So we took from him two Moidores, ten Shillings and Six pence in Silver, six Penn'worth of Halfpence, and his Hat. After we had robb'd him, he follow'd us; but I turn'd back, and gave him a Knock, upon which he ran thro' the Bars, towards Thames-street, and we made up Crutched-fryars , and so into Whitechapel , and from thence to Kisby's in Well-street , and there we shar'd and spent the Money. I had no Difficulty to find in which Pocket his Money was; for all the Way he walk'd between us, he kept his Hand in his Pocket, and chink'd it - so I had nothing more to do, than just plung my Hand into the right Place, and seize the Cole.

One Night Wilson, Lovell, and I, stopped two Bailiff's Followers in Wellclose-Square , but they baul'd out and made a terrible Noise; I fired a Pistol over their Hands, upon which they both ran away. After that we stopped a Gentleman, and got 10 s. from him; then we resolved to go Home and share the Money, but at Rag-Fair Watch-House I stepp'd in to light a Candle, and who should I see there but the two Bailiffs telling a dismal Story of their being attacked and shot at; I did not think proper to stay to light my Candle, but Moll Kingstone being at the Door, I got her to light it for me, and she told me the Bailiffs were so frighted, that they never stirr'd, out of the Watch-House till the next Morning.

Another Time Wilson, Lovell, and I, stopped a Man and Woman in Goodman's-Fields ; the Woman scream'd out, I begged she would not make a Noise; Wilson and Lovell were afraid to search because she made such an Out-cry; but I perceived the Chain of his Watch, and Notwithstanding the Naise, I made a Pluck at it and get it; the Gentleman immediately seized me, and held me fast by the Arm, but I gave him a Blow with my Pistol which made him let go his Hold; then I fired it into the Air, and ran Home with the Watch. - There I flung Wilson and Lovell, for as they knew nothing of my having got the Watch, I gave them no Share of it.

The Robbery of Mr. Christian in Bloomsoury-Square was committed as it was sworn upon us, and tho' we took a Guinea from him, yet poor Goswel had but his Share of 2 s. and half a Pint of Gin; for Wilson and I lodging together, I clapp'd the Guinea into my Mouth and he and I shar'd that at the same Night.

The and other Goods we stole we always sold to Irish Peg, her true Name is Margaret Poland , and she did ledge at Kisby's , in whos House I have spent many a Pound; since I have been in Newgate I have sent to him for a little Relief, and he generously sent me - a Penny.

FINIS.

