THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 2d of this Instant October, 1734.

BEING THE Fifth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir WILLIAM BILLERS , Knt.

Number V. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXIV.

[Price Six-Pence.]

ADVERTISEMENT.

This Day is Publish'd, Vol. II.

(Price 3s. 6d.)

With a Frontispiece of Catherine Hayes , of the Contrivance of the Murder of her Husband John Hayes ,

THE Lives of the most remarkable Criminals who have been condemned and executed, either for the Highway, Street Robberies, Burglaries, Murders, or other capital Offences, from the Year 1720, to the present Time: Containing particularly the Lives of the famous JONATHAN WILD , Edward Burnworth ; alias Frazier , Blewit, Betty, Dickenson, Majorum and Higgs, for the Murder of Mr. Ball in St. George's Fields ; Catherine Hayes , for the barbarous Murder of her Husband; Forster Snow , for the Murder of a Man in his House in Holborn; Thomas Billings , concern'd with Catherine Hayes , in the Murder of Mr. Hayes; Thomas Smith , a Highwayman, and Capt. Jean, for the Murder of his Cabin-Boy, &c. &c. &c.

Printed and sold by John Applebee in Bolt-Court , Fleet-street ; A Bettesworth and C. Hitch, at the RedLyon in Pater-noster-Row; J. Pemberton, at the Goldden Buck against St. Dunstan's Church; J. Isted, at the Golden Ball near Chancery-Lane, Fleet-street; E. Symon, at the Royal Exchange; R. Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Amen-Corner, near Pater-noster Row. W. Mears, at the Lamb, the Corner of Bell-Savage Inn on Ludgate-Hill; Richard Wellington , at the Dolphin and Crown ; and Mrs. Dodd, at the Peacock without Temple-Bar.

Where may be had, Vol. I.

N. B. Vol. III. is in the Press, and will be publish'd with all convenient Expedition.

The Publick may depend on the Accounts publish'd in this Work, as containing a just and faithful Narration of the Conduct of these unhappy Persons, and a true State of their respective Crimes, without any Additions of feigning and romantick Adventures, calculated meerly to entertain the Curiosity of the Reader.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir William Billers , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable Lord Chief Baron Reynolds; the Honourable Mr. Justice Fortescue Aland ; the Honourable Mr. Justice Lee; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London; and Justices of GaolDelivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex,) at Justice-Hall in the OldBailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 10th, 11th and 12th of July 1734, in the Eigth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Two Men, viz. Nicholas Baldwin , and Humphry Remmington ; and four Women, viz. Mary Haycock , Elizabeth Tracey , Ann Knight and Catherine Bougle , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

As also, at the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and GaolDelivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir. William Billers , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Honourable Mr. Baron Thomson, Recorder, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London; and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) upon Wednesday, Thurs

day and Friday the 11th, 12th and 13th, of September in the Eight Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Six Men, viz. John Green , Anthony Langloge , alias Porta , Thomas Macquire , Robert Colson , William Howard and Thomas Armson ; and one Woman, viz. Mary Gill , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were exhorted to a serious Preparation for Death, from these Words Mark the Perfect Man and behold the Upright: for the end of that Man is Peace, Psal. 37. 37. From this, I took Occasion to reflect upon the Brevity of human Life, and to show them, that the great Difference betwixt a Life of Sin and Wickedness, and a Life of Piety and Virtue, is, that the former Consists only our present Interest, but the latter Provides for our Future well-being, and lays a sure Foundation for our everlasting Peace and Happiness. The greatest advantage of a Sinful course of Life is, to be Diverted a little, and pleasantly entertain'd for a small Moment, which in comparison of things in the vegetable and sensitive World is very short, but to be ballanced with Eternity is meer Nothing: Time itself has no Proportion to Eternity, much less that Span of it which makes up the Life of Man. Behold thou hast made my Days as a Span long, and mine Age is as nothing in Respect of Thee. Says the Royal Psalmist. Psal. 39. 5. Although our whole Life were one continu'd Scene of Pleasure; 'twould be just nothing in Respect of that Part which we are to Act upon another Stage. And there is the great Aggrevation of the Folly of Sin, that although some of it's Pains are Eternal, yet all it's Pleasures are but for a Season. But it's quite otherwise in the Practice of Religion and Virtue, which secures to us an Eternal and never fading Interest, even everlasting Happiness. She is Pleasant in the Way, as well as in the End; her ways are Pleasantness, and all her Paths are Peace. Prov. 3. 17. But it is her distinguishing Glory, that She brings us true and solid Peace at last, however an ill Combination of Accidents may defraud us of the other. For Vice has its present Pleasures, as well as Virtue, but herein lies the Difference, that Virtue only ends well. I myself (says the Psalmist) have seen the Ungodly in great Power, and Flourishing like a green Bay-tree: There

is the present Pomp and Pleasure of Sin: but I went by, and lo he was gone; I sought him, but his Place could no where be found.

Then it follows as a practical Remark upon the whole; Mark the perfect Man, and behold the upright, for the End of that Man is Peace. From this Text we observ'd, that Peace at the last is more to be valued than any of the temporary Pleasures of Sin. Which appears, because we are not to be resolv'd into nothing, like the Beasts that perish, but to launch out into an eternal, unfathomable, unknown Gulph, into Eternity of Happiness, or Eternity of Misery. And now when we die, since we must enter upon one of these States, how nearly does it concern us to choose that better Part, which shall never be taken from us? Then shall we come to know of what an inestimable Value a quiet Conscience, a satisfy'd Mind, and a Hope full of Glory and Immortality are. Secondly, we observ'd, That a good Life will certainly bring us everlasting Peace; as being the Condition of the Gospel Covenant. And as a good Life gives us Peace at our last Hour, do it will give us some Assurance of our everlasting Happiness: With what strange Delight and Satisfaction does a good Man reflect upon the Good he has done in his Life! Those Joys and Consolations, which before maintain'd a gentle Course within their own Chanels, now begin to swell above the Banks, and overflow the Man, &c. From the 8th Commandment, Thou shalt not Steal, I show'd them the Obligation incumbent upon us, to Honesty in all our Dealings, which not only imply'd, that the actual Commission of Theft and Robbery was to be abstain'd from, but that we ought to be careful not to defraud or chea our Neighbours any manner of way of their Goods and Property: And then I took Occasion to shew them what great Wickedness and Injustice it was to Coin or counterfeit Money, as not only being an Encroachment upon the Sacred Royal Prerogative, but a general Loss to, and Imposition upon the whole Nation, and tending to a total Overthrow and Destruction of all Trade and Commerce. They having been guilty of Murder, and other gross Sins of the highest Injustice, Theft, and Robbery, I exhorted them all to an hearty Repentance for these heinous Crimes, and other Sins, and

to fly to the Blood of Christ, which only can cleanse us from all Unrighteousness, and thro' whom alone it is that we can have access unto the Father.

When these, and many other Exhortations were given, they all attended in Chapel constantly, and behaved quietly, decently, and christianly, (and to appearance) they were more sedate and penitent, than too often such unfortunate People use to be.

Upon Thursday the 18th of July last, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the six Malefactors under Sentence of Death, in the Cells of Newgate : And upon Thursday the 26th of September, for those condemn'd the last Sessions at the Old-Bailey, when Nicholas Baldwin , for stealing 953 Ells of Flaxen Russia Cloth, value 15 l. 114 Ells of Hempen Russia Cloth, value 20 s. 4 Ells of Holland, value 20 s, 17 Ells of Russia Diaper, value 36 s. 40 Yards of Silesia Linnen, value 30 s. 4 Yards of Muslin, value 18 s. 1 Yard of Huckaback, 1 Yard of Diaper, half a Yard of Holland, 24 printed Handkerchiefs, value 35 s. 30 Yards of Lawn, value 3 l. 13 Yards of Cambrick, value 5 l. 19 Yards of Garlick, value 48 s. 30 Yards of Dimity, value 24s. 14 Yards of Diaper, value 25 s. and a Damask Table-cloth, value 8 s. the Goods of William Chase , Ambrose Harvey and Henry Nap , in their House, May 28. Henry Remmington , for the Murder of William Wells , by giving him on the Right Side of the Head, with a Dung-fork, one mortal Wound and Bruise, June 8, of which he died the same Day. Ann Knight , for High Treason, in counterfeiting the current Coin of this Kingdom, by making 30 false Six-pences; and on a second Indictment for making 20 counterfeit Shillings, the same with Elizabeth Tracey : John Green , for assaulting Mary Cowley on the Highway, and taking a Leghorn Hat, a Muslin Hood, a Cap, an Apron, a Top-knot, and two Handkerchiefs, August 2. and for taking from Elizabeth, the Wife of John Cowley , a Leghorn Hat, a Muslin Hood, a Cap, an Apron, two Handkerchiefs, and 18 d. in Money; for taking from Susan, the Wife of Walter With , a Leghorn Hat, a Cap, two Handkerchiefs, an Apron, a CallimaneoGown, a Silver Thimble, and three Shillings; and for taking from John West a pair of mix'd Metal Buttons and 3 s. 6 d. all at the same Time

and Place: Anthony Langloge , alias Porta , a Milanese , for stealing 15 Guineas, and 10 s. the Property of Joseph Tadie , in the House of James Bowden , August 20. Thomas Armson , a little Boy, for stealing a Guinea, three half Guineas, half a Moidore, and 8 l. 2 s. the Money of William Ward , in the House of William Newman , in the Parish of Harrow , Sept. 6. and Mary Gill , for stealing three Handkerchiefs, a pair of Stockings, a Leghorn Hat, and 22 Guineas, the Goods and Money of William Ovet , in his House, July 19, receiv'd his Majesty most gracious Reprieve. The remaining, Six, viz. Mary Haycock , Elizabeth Tracey , Catharine Bongle , alias Tracey , Thomas Macguire , Robert Colson and William Howard ; were ordered for Execution.

Anthony Langloge , being an Italian, and but two or three Days in Town, when he was taken up, could not speak, and understood not one Word of English, and also of the Roman Communion, would not come to Chapel, because he could understand nothing; yet being bred a Scholar, he spoke Latin to; me pretty readily, declar'd himself very penitent for all the Errors of his Life, and that he most chearfully submitted to the Will of God, whatever way, he in his Providence should think fit to dispose him. Thomas Macguire was miserably poor and naked, and partly out of Obstinacy of Temper, partly because of Sickness, he did not come much to Chapel, but when I visited or spoke to him, he declar'd himself penitent, and that he hop'd God would have Mercy upon his poor Soul. The rest of them attended in Chapel, and behav'd well.

William Howard , was indicted for breaking and entring the House of Thomas Taylor , and stealing a Coat, Waistcoat, and Breeches three pair of Shoes, three Shirts, two Smocks, a pair of Boots, two Hats, three Wigs, two tea Spoons, five Dishes, eleven Plates, three Spoons, and two Brass Candlesticks, the Goods of Thomas Taylor , and other Things, the Properties of divers Persons, May 5, in the Nighttime.

1. William Howard , 23 Years of Age, of honest respected Parents about the Town, who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and Accompts, to fit him for Business, and instructed him

in Christian Principles; but all the Advantages of a good Education he mis-improv'd to the worst of Purposes, having been of a naughty, perverse, disobedient Temper. When of Age, his Father kept him to his own Business of a Baker , but he lov'd not that, nor no settled Business, inclining only to the Company of notorious Thieves and vile Women, who hurried, him a-pace to his Ruin, and Destruction. His Father fail'd in his Business more than once, and those Misfortunes were brought upon him, chiefly by Means of, this Prodigal Son, who run him, but in a short Time, to the Amount of several hundred Pounds. After this, the Parents were so afflicted with their own Calamities and affronted, with their Son's continu'd Miscarriages, that they left the Kingdom and went to the Plantations, in order to settle there where they might be free from the constant dismal Accounts of their flagatios, irreclaimable Son, who still persisted in his wicked Courses, still, cohabiting with one Woman or other, who pass'd for his Wife, 'one of whom is already transported, another lying at this Time in Newgate under the like Sentence of Transportation, and a third whom he discharg'd his Company when all Hopes of Life were gone: He was a very wicked young Man and was formerly found guilty of a Felony, for which he was transported to Virginia , but from thence he very soon found his Way to South Carolina , in quest of his Parents, where he liv'd a pretty while, wanting for nothing, and might have had abundance of Business; but longing to be in London again, he pick'd a Quarrel with his Mother, and paid for his Passage home; where he no sooner came, but he fell in with his old Acquaintances, wherein he continu'd 'till he was taken up, and brought to condign Punishment for his many reiterated Crimes. The best and nearest Friend he had in London, who had done him many special Favours, and would have settled him in good Business if he had been good for any Thing, yet both him and his Family he kept in perpetual Fear for a long Time intending to break his House, and to rob him of all his most valuable Goods; and accordingly one Night, or rather early in the Morning, he broke into the House, but one of the Family waking, and crying out, he was oblig'd to fly with one piece of Plate, and a few small

Things, leaving behind him a Bundle of Plate, and other the richest things in the House, which he intended to carry off, and to rifle every Thing, if he had not been stopt and frightened. He own'd that he was a most flagitious, wicked young Man, void of all good Qualities, and addicted to all manner of Vices, such as Drinking, Whoring, Gaming, Cursing, and Blaspheming, and Sabbath Breaking, &c. he committed a Number of Street and Highway Robberies, pick Pockets; was guilty of Shop-lifting, and all kinds of Theft, having had Pleasure in nothing but the Company of meer Reprobates, whether Men or Women, and living upon the general plunder of all Mankind. He acknowledged also, that he was guilty of Perjury, in swearing Robberies falsely upon another Man; because he was of Opinion, that he designed to swear against him. For these, and innumerable other Sins, which he freely confest, he begg'd pardon of God and Man, shed plenty of Tears, behaved well under his Misfortunes, and own'd that his Sentence was most just; and that he suffered most deservedly. He declared, that he was truly penitent for all his Sins; hoping to obtain Mercy from God, through Christ, in whom he believed as his only Saviour, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

An Account of the Robberies committed by William Howard , one of the Malefactors, who suffered at Tyburn , on Wednesday the second Day of October, 1734. and which he particularly desired might be published in this Paper; and that the Publick might be informed, that he did request the same, not out of any Pride he took in the Repetition thereof; but on the contrary, that innocent Persons might not lye under the Imputation of having committed them, by reason, (as he said) some other Persons were suspected for divers of them.

HE said, he with some others of his Companions, within some few Months of his Committment for the Fact for which he suffered, had committed near Fourscore Burglaries, in and about the Town; and he believed above thirty of them were committed in Clerkenwell Parish , and in that Neighbourhood; and had got for his Share above two hundred Pounds, by Sale of the Goods they stole; and in particular from a Washerwoman's House, which they broke open in Cold-Bath Fields . That he and one Jack Anderson , took about eighty or a hundred Shirts and Shifts,

besides other Linnen, &c. and in particular, about thirty Shirts which were marked with W. H. and as he imagined, belonged to Mr. Hind the Brewer; some of which he applied to his own Wear, and the rest they sold, and that a Woman who is now under Sentence of Transportation, was concerned with them in this Fact.

From a House in Richbell-Court , in Red-Lyon-street , they took six Shirts, some Shifts and other Things; as Gowns, Petticoats, Clothes, six silver tea Spoons, a silver hilted Sword, a gold headed Cne, a silver Snuff-box, and other Things to a considerable Value.

That he, with one James Goodman and William Wynn , broke open a House in Wharton Court , from whence they took about twenty Shirts and Shifts, besides Aprons and other Linnen, as also some Pewter Plate, a Hat, Wig, wearing Apparel, and Shoes, and other Things to a considerable Value.

The Red-Lyon-Inn , in Gray's-Inn Lane , they also broke open; but having likewise broke open two Houses in that Neighbourhood the same Night, they had not time to do what they intended, by Reason Daylight came on, so that there they only got a Moydore, one Shilling, and some Half-pence; besides a Wig and a Coat, and went off with that.

That they had also broke open most of the Houses in Tash-street, which they effected by means of Ladders belonging to Bricklayers and others, who were at Work in the Neighbourhood, and by the help of these, sometimes got in at the Garret or Chamber Window; that in particular, at one House in that Street, where they got in at the Garret Window, and took about seven or eight pair of Sheets, Table-cloths, Gowns, &c. and coming down Stairs, went into the Parlour, where seeing a Bed in it, they went to pull of the Bed Clothes, in order to carry them off likewise; but the Man and his Wife being in the same Bed a-sleep, whom they did not see, their pulling the Clothes off wakened them, and they cried out Thieves, and Murder, on which Howard and his Companion Goodman, with a Volley of Oaths and threatning to murder them, obliged them to cease their Calling out for Help, and marched off with what they had got.

At another House next the Paviour's Arms, at Hatton-Wall, they broke in at the Cellar Window, and took a considerable Quantity of Pewter, Brass, Linnen, and wearing Apparel, then went into the Parlour, where they found five or six silver Spoons, a Set of Tea-spoons, a silver Boat, and in particular, a hump'd-back'd Boys Coat; but going into the next Room, where the Woman was in Bed, she hearing the Noise, called out to know who was there; Howard being

himself in Liquor, cry'd D - you for a B - ch, your Lord and Master, lie still and be D - d. And his Companion Goodman coming into the Room at the same time, obliged the Woman to lye still, whilst Howard carried off the Goods, and then they both went off.

They rob'd the Cock-pit near Grays Inn-Lane several times, and one time in particular, amongst other things took away a Jugg of Rum, and going along the King's Road , met a Watchman there, whom they made to drink with them, who took so large a Dose thereof, that instead of going his Rounds, he went into the Fields, and lay down upon the Grass, to take a Nap, to refresh himself.

This Robbery he said he was suspected for, as also for one which he committed at the White-Lyon Alehouse in Gray's-Inn-Lane . Another at a Gentleman's House in Kings-head Court , Holbourn -At the Cheshire-Cheese in Wood's Close -A private House in St. John's Court , in St. John's-Street , and another in Jewin Street ; all those he committed, and said he believed he was justly suspected for them all.

The same Night that he robb'd the Cock-pit, but before in the Evening, he and some others of his Companions going along Burr-Street in St. Katherines , betwixt nine and ten in the Evening, saw a Gentleman in a Room by himself, and a Rokeloe and a strait bodied Coat, lying in the Window. Howard and his Companions endeavoured to get up the Sash, to take them out, which whilst they were about, the Gentleman rose up hastily, went to a Closet, and took out a silver Pint Mug, Spoon; and filling the Mug with Wine, went out of the Room upon some Occasion or other, in the mean time Howard put up the Sash, took out the Coat and Rockeloe, stept into the Room, carried off the Mug and Spoon, before the Gentleman returned, and shut down the Window again; as soon as the Gentleman came in, finding the Mug and Spoon gone, he called to his Servant, to know what was become of them; who replying, no Body had been in the Room; the Gentleman in Surprize, swore the Devil had been there then, and going out of the Room, they saw him make to the Door, but before he got the Door open, they got oft with their Booty, and taking Coach, came to the Old Bailey ; where they sold the Cup to Boddington, (who was since transported, for buying the Goods of Colonel Des Romaines; for which one Brown and Whitlock were executed for robbing the said Gentleman) for 2 Guineas, the Spoon for 10 s. and the Coat and Rockeloe for twenty-five Shillings, which they divided amongst them.

He also broke open the House of one Mr. Bur, a Merchant, whom his Father (who was a Baker) at that time served with Bread, and from thence took a large Bread Plate, a

dozen of Silver-spoons, some Teaspoons, a silver Boat, six Shirts and the Ruffles to them, which lay in a Pan of Water, and several other things of Value. The Method of committing this Robbery was on this Manner, he being out upon the Search for Prey, was got upon the Top of Mr. Bur's House, where he lay till about two in the Morning, and in the mean time about twelve o' Clock the House Maid and Cook Maid going to Bed, and having had some Words together, he over heard the Cook-maid say to the other, you have left the Bread Plate below in the Table-cloth, and you know the Chimney Sweepers are to come in the Morning, I wish some of them may take it away: Upon which about two in the Morning, when they were all asleep, he opened a trap Door, which went on to the Top of the House, and so got in, took away the Particulars before mentioned, and got off with them; the next Day the Things being missed, the poor Cook-maid was taken up upon Suspicion, and committed to Newgate; but there being no other Proof than what was founded on Suspicion of the Words she had spoke to the House-maid, she was afterwards discharged.

He, with some other of his Companions, broke open a Sale Shop in St. John's-street about Christmas was 12 Months last, from whence they took about 30 Suits of Cloaths, old and new, besides other Things; but in going by St. John's Pound , were stop'd by two Watchmen, but they being arm'd with Pistols, oblig'd the Watchmen to light them into the Fields as far as the London Spaw, when they sent the Watchmen back, and made the best of their Way to the Pinder of Wakefield , where they made a Survey of their Booty; and from thence sent for a Woman who used to pawn their stolen Goods for them, who came accordingly, and carry'd them away to some of her Accomplices, and converted them into Money presently, so that they shared about 12 l. each amongst them for that Night's Work.

He had committed so many Robberies, and apprehending some of his Confederates would impeach him to save themselves; that not thinking it safe to stay longer here, he went to Ireland , where he was gone for some Time, but exercis'd his Talent in the same manner as he had done here, so that he found it equally as dangerous to stay there as here, upon which he ventur'd back again; but the second Night after his Return, he went to a House in Bishops Court , in the Old-Baily , which designing to attempt, he turn'd the Pin of the Window, and the Key dropping out, he open'd the Shutter and got in, and from thence he took six Shirts, seven Shifts, besides Gowns. Aprons, Frocks, Petticoats, Handkerchiefs, and all the Master's wearing Apparel, except his Breeches: This was in March last, in

Company with one Woodburne and Wynn.

During his being in Ireland, one Oaks gave in two Informations against him, both of which he said were true, and were committed in Milford-lane in one House; the first, he with the Evidence open'd the Sash Window and took out a Tea Kettle and Lamp, which they apprehended to be Silver (but was not) and some China; but some of the Neighbours perceiving them, gave the Alarm, and they were glad to get off with what they had got.

The second was in the same House, where being got in he open'd several Drawers, and had bundled up a large Quantity of Goods, amongst which was about 30 Yards of Velvet ready to be carry'd off; but being again disturb'd, they were obliged to march of and leave the Things behind them, excepting only a Pair of Silver Buckles, and two or three Handkerchiefs.

He and his Companion broke open several Houses in and about St. James's Westminster and White-hall , particularly one with his Companion Okey near the last Place, from whence they took a Man's Coat, and several Parcels of Linnen and Woollen Apparel, which they carried to a Place where they usually resorted, and sent a Woman whom he entrusted, and with whom he sometimes liv'd as his Wife, to dispose of the Coat, who brought them 15 s for it, alledging it was all she could get; as to Howard, he believ'd her, but Okey endeavour'd to persuade him that she had got more, but kept it; on which Howard flung a Knife at her with such Force, that it not only pierc'd thro' her Cloaths, but struck also into the Bone; and they having got a Fowl roasted for Supper, which being brought to Table in the midst of the Fray, upon which Okey seeing the Blood run from the wounded Woman, snatch'd the Fowl from off the Table and ran away with it: Howard seeing that, follow'd Okey for some time, but he got away from him; and on Howard's coming back again, his Mistress lay bleeding on the Floor, and almost Speechless, which he seeing run for a Surgeon, and by proper Application she recover'd, but it was some Time first.

By this Robbery they got about 4 l. a-piece, and from the Produce of the several Robberies about St. James's, they divided about 80 l. each.

He said the Robbery which most disturb'd his Conscience was, a Burglary which he committed at a Porter's House near Bunhill-Fields, from whence he took about 30 or 40 Yards of Callimanco or Camblet, about 150 Yards of Lacing for Saddles, besides a considerable parcel of Wearing Apparel, Houshold Goods, and common Utensils; and that in the Space of three Months before his last Commitment to Newgate , he had got near 200 l. by the Robberies he had committed.

And that he, in Company with a Woman now under Sentence for Transportation, broke open a House in a Court in Bishopsgate-street , from whence they took 8 pieces of Camblet and Callimanco, a Quaker's Hat, and several other Things, to a considerable value.

He declar'd he had several Times robb'd both his Father and his Uncle, and had it in his Intention to have stripp'd his Uncle's House, but had like to have been discover'd in the Attempt, and glad to get of to prevent being known.

The last Burglary he said he committed was at the Crown-Coffee House , against St. George's Church Southwark , where they opened several Drawers, and packed up a considerable parcel of Silks, Cloths, Linnen, and other Things, which he and Wynn bundled up in two Parcels; one of which he carried on at the Door himself, about four a Clock in the Morning, and Wynn immediately coming out after him with the other, a Stranger passing by, and observing them, said they had been robbing the House, but not being positive of it, nor having any Body at Hand to assist him, only went muttering along the Street, making up to the Watch-house, as they supposed, to inform the Watch; which they seeing turned off another Way, and made up towards the Fields, till they had an Opportunity to House their Goods till Day, when they got a Coach and carried them off.

The same Day one Sutton, who had stole 3 silver Spoons from his Mother, gave one of them to a Woman, who carried the same to Howard, who filing out the Arms for her, she carry'd the same to pawn, and was stopt, when Howard coming after her was stopt also; but no Body appearing against them, they were then discharged; yet the same Day Howard was apprehended for some of his former Facts, and being Custody, thought to get off by turning Evidence against some of his former Companions, and having been told that some of them designed to save themselves, by impeaching him. Howard resolved to be before-hand with them, and do them the like Favour; and therefore he gave in an Information against William Isackson , alias Jackson , and William Gulliford , for one Burglary, which he said they committed with him, and swore the Fact against the former, at the Old Bailey in July last; but it appearing that he was in Custody at the very Time Howard swore the Fact to be commited, he was acquitted. This Howard after his Sentence acknowledged, and that he had sworn falsely against them in Order to prevent their informing against him on any other Account; he declared they were innocent of this Fact, that he was heartily glad they were acquitted, and said that himself and a little Woman, (now under Sentence of Transportation) and

John Anderson , who was executed along with James Baker , alias Stick-in-theMad committed that Fact.

He in his Information also gave in an Account of another Burglary which he pretended was committed by himself and John Green , alias Gartering Jack, and John Green betaken upon his Information, was try'd at the Old Baily for the same; and Howard swore the same positively upon the said Green; but Howard's Credit being so bad, both as appear'd by his own Evidence, and the Prosecutor's last mention'd, the Jury did not believe him, and acquitted the Prisoner.

He said there was a Woman, who formerly lived upon Saffron-Hill, whose House they used to frequent, who was privy to many of their Actions, and generally used to leave her Cellar Door unbolted, that if they met with a Prize, they might have the Opportunity of coming in at all Hours in the Night, without any Disturbance or Suspicion to the Neighbourhood that she is since removed into St. Andrew's-street, where she carries on the like Business; that her House is frequented by all Sorts of Thieves, &c. who was one of her best, if not her only Customers: And that she used to assist in disposing of the Goods they stole, and that if the Persons injured by the several Burglaries aforesaid, were to apply in a proper Manner, many of them might find part of the Goods they lost, yet in her House or Custody: And wish'd some proper Means were used to suppress that House, and to punish her, she being, as he said, one of the greatest Encouragers of Youth in all Sorts of Wickedness.

He also mention'd another Person, who keeps a Brandy Shop near St. Giles's-Pound, who, he said, was a great Promoter of their Crimes, by encouraging them in their Proceedings, and then betraying them afterwards; and that it was to him that he owed the first Occasion of his Ruin, and this he declared as he was in the Cart going to the Place of Execution.

On the Morning of his Execution a Gentleman came to Newgate , to enquire of him about some particular Affairs; after which, speaking in relation to his approaching End, and pressing him to declare whether he had any Thing in particular that burthen'd his Conscience, he reply'd, he had not, that he had been a great Sinner, but never knew what it was to be easy in his Mind, until that last blessed Night, that he had much rather die than live; for that if his Majesty were to grant him a Pardon, he found he should be drawn away to his former Course of Life; and said all his Fellow-Convicts seem'd easy under their dismal Circumstances. About Eight o' Clock he with the rest went up to Chappel, where they all attended Divine Service with Seriousness and Attention, at the Close whereof Howard cry'd out, Lord have

Mercy upon us all, and likewise on all People Living.

He desir'd particularly that his Friend, Mrs. A. B. (who, he said, would see this Paper when publish'd) would be particularly careful of a certain Person whom she was acquainted with, and whom she believed to be sincere in his Professions to her; for this Reason, that he knew his Intentions to be only to deceive and delude her, and hoped that this Caution from him might be the Means to prevent her Ruin.

He also desired that the Publick might be particularly informed, that the true Reason why so many Burglaries were committed was, by the Carelesness of Servants, in not taking Care to fasten the Keys in the Pins of the Windows, they many Times pinning the same so negligently, that on turning the Pins round, the Keys would of themselves often fall out, without any farther Trouble, and especially if they were turn'd and shook a little, whereas if they were careful to pin their Windows, and fix the Keys in so, that on turning or shaking the Pins they could not fall out, Burglaries would not be so frequent: And also if People would take Care to have proper Fastenings to their Sashes to prevent their being thrown up in the Evenings, by any Person on the Out-side. Many of the Burglaries mention'd in this Account were committed by getting in at the Windows, on finding the Pins either unkey'd, or so negligently fasten'd, that on turning or shaking the same, they drop'd out: And it was a general Practice with them to go from House to House to try the Pins of the Windows, and that they generally found some or other of them, either unpinned, or else so loose, that the Keys drop'd out on turning the Pins, whereby they found a ready Entry, without the Trouble and Noise which might otherways have attended any other way of Entry; and so Expeditious, that they often committed two or three Burglaries in one Night, with very little Trouble, they not being Content with one only, when they had Time enough to effect more.

Robert Colson , was indicted for assaulting Elizabeth Bedford , in an open Field near the Highway, putting her Fear, and taking from her four Handkerchiefs, a Waistcoat, a Shirt, a Cambrick-head, a Cloak, a Tortoiseshell Ring, a Gold Ring, a Cypher Ring, a Gold Ring set with DiamondSparks, a Snuff-Box, and other things, and five Shillings in Money, June the 1st.

He was a second time indicted, for assaulting Timothy Towle , in an open Path near the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Violin, a Coat and Waistcoat, five Musick-Books, a Cap, and one Shilling, June the 5th.

2. Robert Colson , about twenty-nine or thirty Years old, of honest, but

mean Parents, in Essex , thirty-five Miles from London ; who gave him but little Education at School, and what he there learned he had since mostly forgot. He served his Time to a Gardiner in the Country , honestly, and with Approbation; and then he married a Wife, who was tried with him, for receiving the Goods, for which he was tried and convicted, knowing them to be stolen; but she was on the Trial acquitted. While he continued in his own Country he had Employment, and maintained himself and Family by his Business, with a good Character and Reputation; and coming to Town with his Family, about five years ago, he had here also constant Employment, and mostly in Gardens about Bloomsbury , where he gain'd a sufficient Livelihood to support himself and Family in a sober Way, and if he had been contented with his Lot, might have done very well; but falling in with bad Company, about such Shops and Places as they frequent, they so far corrupted his Morals, that he turned idle, and became capable of undertaking the most villainous Exploits. He acknowledged the two Robberies, as sworn against him, although at first he denyed himself to be the Person, alledging the Witnesses to have committed a Mistake in taking him for another; but when the Dead Warrant came out, he acknowledged all with Tears, and that of late he had been very wicked, in Drinking, Swearing, and keeping of bad Company, having neglected all Business, and joined himself to a Company of notorious Thieves and Robbers. He lamented much for the Misery and Calamity he had brought upon his Wife and innocent Child. He denied that he was wicked or of a scandalous Behaviour, in the former part of his Life; but said, that he frequented the Church, and lived regularly, not knowing any thing of ill Courses, till he fell in with a Set of abandoned Wretches, about the Town. He was very ignorant and illeterate; I endeavoured to instruct him in the Principles necessary to Salvation, as much as the Shortness of the Time would allow. He declared himself sincerely penitent for all the Sins of his Life; that he believed in Christ, through whom alone he expected Salvation, and that he was in Peace with all the World.

Thomas Macguire , was indicted for stealing a black Gelding, value 5 l. the Property of John Shipwith , August 1st.

3. Thomas Macguire , 30 Years of Age, born at Dublin , of mean Parents, who educated him at School as they were able, but did not put him to any particular Trade; so when of Age he went abroad from his own Country to the Plantations, and serv'd nine Years in Virginia , where they treated him well, and he had plenty of every Thing, but not loving Con

finement to Business in that Country, he went to Sea, and serv'd some Time in a Man of War ; and at last coming to England , having done something amiss, he left the Ship, and being on Shore about London , having nothing to do, and destitue of every Thing, he took the Horse from out of the Fields, intending to sell him in the first Town or Place where he could find a Buyer but at Barnet , they seeing him without Shoes, Saddle, or any thing to fit him for riding, stopt him upon Suspicion, and immediately found out the true Owner; upon which Thomas was committed, try'd and capitally convicted for the said Crime. He own'd in general, that he had been a very great Sinner, but said he had never committed any other Theft or Robbery, except in the Fact for which he was convicted. He was miserably poor and naked, and so weak and sick, that he could not come often up to Chapel. He was very morose and obstinate, and not willing to confess any Thing; for it was hard to extort a Word from him, upon any Subject whatever. He was of the Romish Communion; and said, that he hop'd God would have Mercy upon his poor Soul.

Mary Haycock , (Wife of John Haycock ) and Ann Haycock her Daughter, were indicted for High-Treason; for having in their Custody, a pair of wooden Flasks for Coining, without any lawful Cause. They were a second time indicted for concealing the said Flasks, and a third time, for coining three false and counterfeit Sixpences, June 1st.

4. Mary Haycock , thirty-seven years of Age, born in the Kingdom of Ireland ; her Parents gave her a tolerable Education at School, but what she got was mostly obliterated, by reason of two great a Concern about worldly Affairs. Having lived as a Servant for a short time, she married John Haycock , a Shoe maker , and had six Children, all now living: the eldest of which, Ann, was try'd with her and acquitted, and the rest, except the second, being young, were all put into the Workhouse. She, as too many of her Acquaintances had done, learned the Art of Coining in Ireland, and when she found it not safe to stay there any longer, she came for England , where she never wanting considerable Sums of Money of her own Coining, which she past off in all Places she came to, where she thought it could be done with Safety. The Metal they commonly used for this Purpose is Pewter, and the Way they come by it is, three, four, or five of them go to an Ale-house in Company, and every one call for a Quart or Pint of Beer, then they fixed upon the Pots that was of the best Metal, which they could do, as having from frequent Practice found which was most proper for their intended Use; one or two of which

they would secreet and carry off with them; and of these they used to counterfeit Six-pences, Shillings and Half Crowns; so that the Ale-house Men were commonly the first Sufferers by Persons of their Profession. She used to go into the Country, upon Pretence of selling Laces and small Things, but her main Business was to put of bad Money in Exchange.

But about eight Months since, this Mary Haycock , with her Daughter Ann , was detected as they were endeavouring to put off some counterfeit Money, to a Person not so easily imposed upon, as others had been; and who justly suspected, that if they were not the Coiners, they were at least Confederates with them, and employ'd to put off the same; and notwithstanding their insisting upon their Innocence, a Constable was sent for, and being examin'd before a Justice of the Peace, there appear'd sufficient Reason (from their evasive Answers) to suspect them, as Persons employed to put off Bad and Counterfeit Coin; and thereupon they were committed to New Prison, where they lay for the Space of five Weeks, or thereabouts; when they were try'd at Hicks's-Hall, for fraudulently putting off, or paying Bad and Counterfeit Coin, knowing the same to be so. But upon the Tryal they had the good Fortune to be acquitted, by Reason their Knowledge of the Coin they had paid, or offer'd in Payment, could not fully appear to the Satisfaction of the Court and Jury. Having by this Means obtain'd their Liberty, they, the same Night, went to lodge with one Ann Russel , over-against Parker's-Lane in Drury-Lane , where they continued fourteen Days, and then removed into Baldwin's-Gardens , to a Room up two Pair of Stairs, where Russel (who was afterwards an Evidence against them) and Mrs. Haycock lay together in one Bed, and the Daughter, and one Catherine Kelly in another Bed in the same Room; and whatever Confidence they might have in Russel and Kelly, we know not; but this much appear'd by the Evidence upon the Trial, that they frequently employ'd themselves in (their Work, as the esteem'd it, which was) Coining of Counterfeit-Money: For one Night particularly, the old Woman, whilst the others was in Bed, was observ'd by Russel to be Coining of Six Pences; on which Russel forbad her proceeding in such Practices. To which she reply'd, She need not be so uneasy, for no Harm should come to her; and at another Time, she surprized both Mother and Daughter very busy with their Molds and Implements about the Fire; but on Russel's coming in they endeavour'd to hide them; and soon afterwards she again found them boiling of their new cast Coin, and the Daughter rubbing the same with Whiting to clean it.

On the 27th of May last, Russel apply'd to a Gentleman belonging to the Mint, and inform'd against Hay

cock, and her Daughter: and they appointed Saturday the 1st of June for seizing them; at which Time the abovesaid Gentleman, with two Assistants, went to the old Woman's Lodging, and the Street-Door being open, they got up Stairs without any Discovery, but found the ChamberDoor tied with a Piece of Tape, but pushing against the same, it flew open: Upon which, the old Woman cry'd out Murther! set up a terrible Irish Hallaloe, and began to be very troublesome, so that the Gentleman, and his Assistants were obliged to tye her Hands before they could proceed to any Search; which done, they found five new Counterfeit Six-Pences thrust into some Notche in the Floor, which they got out; and then searching further, they also found some old Rags, Leather, Whiting, &c. used in Coining; both Mother and Daughter pretended a great deal of Innocence; but upon the aforesaid Gentleman's finding the Particulars before-mention'd, and searching a wooden Box in the Room, the Daughter desired him not to take the Linnen which was therein away, because it was all they should have to support themselves in Newgate; and turning aside to her Mother, said softly to her, We are gone. The Mother made a prodigious Noise, and cry'd out Murder, Thieves, &c.

She was committed to Newgate (where she had been formerly committed, on the 6th of March 1733, for a Crime of the same Nature, but no Bill being found against her in April Sessions following, she was discharged for that Time) but being try'd at the Sessions held in July last, the Facts before-mention'd were sworn against her, and she was capitally convicted. Whilst under Sentence she behaved herself very soberly, seem'd penitent and sorry for her Offences; but complain'd very much of her Husband, that he was a vile naughty Person, wholly negligent of his Duty to God and Man: That he left her for three Years and a half, taking no Care of the Children, which she was oblig'd to keep, without the least Help from him. He came sometimes to visit her while under Sentence, when the fell out and had high Words, giving one another abusive Names; but after the dead Warrant came down, he appear'd very much concern'd for her. She had no other way to live but by wicked and unlawful Practices. She wept and lamented much, for her miserable, simple Husband, as she called him, and small Children. She behav'd well in Chappel, being attentive both to Prayers and Exhortations. She confess'd that she was a most notorious Sinner in many Respects, and that her Sufferings were most deservedly inflicted upon her. She declar'd that she hop'd for Salvation, through the Mercy of God in Christ; that she sincerely re

pented of all her Sins; and forgave every Body, as she expected Mercy from God.

Elizabeth Tracey (with Ann Knight , repriev'd) was indicted, as also with Judith Murray , not yet taken, for High Treason, in making 3 false and counterfeit Six-pences, Feb. 20, in the 6th Year of his present Majesty.

She (with the same Persons) was a second Time indicted for making 20 false and counterfeit Shillings.

5 Elizabeth Tracey , 27 Years of Age, born nigh Dublin , liv'd with her Father and kept House for him after her Mother's Death, who educated her at School in such Things as were proper for one of her Station. Her Father gave her 30 or 40 l. to put herself into Business, with which she bought Irish Linnen, and sold it in the Country , as well whilst she was in Ireland as in England , 'till such Time as the Stock was run out, and then she liv'd by Washing , and other Day-labour ; having still some Pretence of Business to conceal her villainous Practices of coining counterfeit Money. Her Sister, Katharine Tracey , alias Bogle , or Steuard , was long detain'd in New-Prison for putting off and paying away counterfeit Money, and then Betty spent all that was remaining of her Money in maintaining her, which made her take it in very ill Part, that through some Words Catharine had spoke to Dearing, she should be the Occasion of Dearing's informing against her, so soon after she had been so kind to assist and support her under Confinement: But Dearing not only informed against Catharine, but Elizabeth also, and on her Information they were both prosecuted, and Dearing gave Evidence against them both. And this was the Cause of their disagreeing so very much while under Sentence, and misbehaving in a very strange and uncommon manner upon several Occasions, offering to strike and to throw Pint or Quart Pots, or whatever was at hand at each other; so that if the Bystanders had not frequently prevented it in all Probability Murder would have ensu'd. Elizabeth was an inseperable Companion of Ann Knight , who is repriev'd, and lay in the same Lodging with her; and what bad Money they made, it was done by them in Partnership, whatever the one said the other confirming. Elizabeth was not willing to make a full and free Confession, alledging that every Thing was not true in the manner some of the Witnesses had sworn against them, but owned that she had coined and put off counterfeit Money, and that otherwise she was a very wicked young Woman in many Respects, having been tried with Brown, who was lately executed for Coining, (for stealing a silver Tankard,) and acquitted; and she and the rest of them having been frequent

ly in different Jails, for divers Crimes; and that therefore, God who is just in all his Ways, and holy in all his Works, had in Justice afflicted her, and that the Punishment of her Iniquity, was less than what she deserved. She wept and lamented much, and fainted away sometimes in Chappel, after the dead Warrant was out; when reflecting upon her shameful and disgraceful Death. She declared her Penitence for all the Sins of her Life, hoped that Almighty God would have Mercy upon her Soul, and died in Peace with all the World. She was of the Romish Communion.

Catherine Bogle , alias Tracy , was indicted for High-Treason, in coining forty false and counterfeit Sixpences, on the 8th of August, 1733.

She was a second time indicted for coining twelve counterfeit Shillings, on the 30th of the same Month.

6. Catherine Bogle , alias Tracey , alias Steuart , about thirty seven years of Age, was born of honest Parents near Dublin , who put her to School, and bred her in the Romish Way. She served in several Families, but being of a vicious Disposition, she soon grew intimate with several Men, and lived with them at different times, and past alternately for their Wives, and had several Children by them, and this is the Occasion of giving her the Name of Bogle, Steuart, &c. and when they fell out, whilst under Sentence, with her Sister Elizabeth, she upbraided her with having had four Bastards in her own Country. Her last Husband (as she called him) used to lock her up, and to keep her under a pretty close Confinement, but Catherine not loving this way of Treatment, made an Escape from him, and came to London last Year, with Elizabeth Wright , who some Months ago was executed at Tyburn, for coining counterfeit Money. (Catherine had been in London oftener than once before, and having learned her Art in Ireland , where she sometimes practic'd it; she followed the same Employment also in England . Being acquainted with several of the like Profession in London, she went first to Alice Dearing , whom she said she found busily employed at Work, and who afterwards as she pretended, drew her into the same Secret, and made her her chief Confident, sometimes coming, at other times going into the Country, to pass their bad Money in Company together, in one of which Journeys, some time ago, they made 13 or 14 Pound in about fourteen Days time. She was taken up at Hammersmith , about the time that Mary Haycock was also taken up on the same Suspicion, of putting off bad Money, and they were both committed to the Gate House , Westminster , and afterward to New-Prison , during which time her Sister Elizabeth was ruined, with being at the whole Charge of maintaining her

there, and afterwards getting her Freedom; but after some Months Imprisonment she was set at Liberty for want of sufficient Evidence, though she was really guilty of the Fact, having thrown down a Bag of counterfeit Money in a Ditch, when pursu'd, and for which they blam'd Mary Haycock ; however, both of them, tho' with some Difficulty, got out of this Scrape. She reflected much upon one of the chief Edvidence, her great Companion, and some others, and earnestly desir'd poor and unweary People to beware of being ensnar'd by them, who would first draw them in, and then bring them to the same fatal End as they had done herself and some others. Katharine own'd that she was a most wicked flagitious Woman in every Respect. She thought Coining a small Crime, and a great piece of Ingenuity, for which it was hard to subject them to so severe Penalties. I persuaded her to the contrary, and endeavour'd to shew her how detrimental it was to the Publick, and that therefore it ought to be punishable in the highest Degree. Ann Knight and Elizabeth Tracey intended to inform against Alice Dearing , because she had given Evidence against Eliz Wright , Mother to Ann Knight , who was lately executed for the same Crime; this they told to Katharine, who entertaining a strict Correspondence with Dearing, communicated the Secret to her, and warned her to beware of the Danger: Dearing, to prevent their taking Revenge upon her, inform'd against both of them, and Katharine herself, also (and another Woman not yet taken) which brought them to condign Punishment. While under Sentence, this occasion'd Ann and Elizabeth to entertain an irreconcilable Animosity against Katharine, with whom they would scarce speak but in Wrath and Anger, and therefore she kept mostly at a Distance from them: However, both in publick and private, they were continually reflecting on each other for their unhappy Misfortunes, especially the two Sisters; and Words constantly arose between them when present; nay, even sometimes Blows. I severely repremanded them for their misbehaviour in their miserable Circumstances, and desir'd them to lay aside all that Malice which they seem'd to bear to each other, and to pray incessantly unto God for Forgiveness of their manifold Sins and Offences which they daily, nay, hourly committed; yet they were, when present, continually entering into Disputes, Katharine frequently telling her Sister, that if it had not been for you, she should not have been brought to that miserable End, and accusing her for being a vile Woman, a Shop-lifter, a Stealer of Pewter Pots, and such like Discourse. This I was inform'd of, and once or twice was Witness to their Jangling, which was their daily Practice, instead of calling upon our Saviour Christ, to make Intercession for Pardon and Forgiveness for their Wickedness, which they committed against the Almighty.

They sometimes gave me Thanks for my admonishing them, and promis'd to be more mindful of their Duty, acknowledging that they had not been so earnest about their precious Souls as their unhappy Condition requir'd; especially considering the Goodness of his Majesty, who granted them so long a Time to prepare for their latter End.

Katharine was more frank in her Confessions than any of the rest, and own'd that it was all true and matter of Fact which was given in Evidence against her. She said also that they were all Coiners, that she had taught them all that unlawful Art, and that it was needless to deny, but most adviseable to make a full Confession of the Crimes which they justly suffer'd for. She beg'd pardon of God and Man for all the great Offences of her Life, and died in Peace with every Body.

Whilst they were under Sentence, one of the Evidences against them came to Newgate and desired to be admitted to them, but the Turnkey refused to give her Admittance, as knowing the Inclination of the Prisoners not to see her, and therefore desired her to go about her Business; but she insisting upon seeing them, and growing clamorous, the prisoners over-heard her, and calling out from the Cells, where they were confin'd, desired her not to trouble them with her unacceptable Sight, but to go about her Business, without insulting them under their Misfortunes; that she must be sensible her Presence could not be grateful to them, and pray'd God to give her Grace to repent of her evil Ways, and that she would refrain from some Practices she was addicted to, otherways she would soon be in the like Condition with themselves, and said they freely forgave her, and hoped God would do the same to.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Morning they went to Execution, William Howard , Robert Colson , and Mary Haycock , received the Sacrament very devoutly; the other three were of the Romish Communion. When Prayers, Exhortations, singing of Psalms, (to which all of them gave heed) were over: the three Men, William Howard , Robert Colson and Thomas Macguire , were put into one Cart, and the three Women, Mary Haycock , Catherine Tracey , and Elizabeth Tracey , Sisters, were put into the Sledge drawn by four Horses, upon a Hurdle, as is usual in Cases of High-Treason; Haycock and Elizabeth with their Faces forward, and Catherine with her Face looking backward: and they were

in this Order carried to the Place of Execution, where I attended them.

When the Men were tyed up, the three Women came from the Sledge to the Cart, into which they got, when one of the Women went and saluted the three Men, after which they all proceeded to their Devotions. Whilst I was reading, Elizabeth Tracey in particular, spoke a great deal to the Audience in relation to the Crime for which they were to suffer, and with an uncommon Sedateness and Calmness, without any Terror or Fear of Death, and seemed to be in a perfect State of Easiness and Tranquility of Mind, and addressing herself to the High-Constable, who was present, told him particularly of several Persons who were the Encouragers, and Harbourers of Coiners; particular, some in Princess-Street, who were the chief Instruments of bringing her to that Place, and brought her Sister (though till then, they had seemed irreconcilable) to the other End of the Cart, to affirm the same, who did so; and added, that she did not know, nor had ever seen one of the Persons who was one of the principle Evidences against her before the Time of her Trial, and said she was under no Terror on Account of her Death, nor coveted or desired Life in the least.

All the Women in particular, behaved with great Composedness and uncommon Calmness of Mind, and without any Shew of Fear or Dread of Death, or Desire of Life.

William Howard caus'd to be read a Paper, which he desired to be publish'd with this, and which 'tis accordingly incerted. He and the other two Men having no more to add to their former Confessions, called upon God to have Mercy upon them for Christ's sake, and said they died in Peace with all Men.

They were all attentive and serious at Prayers, and singing of Psalms; when Prayers was over, the three Women were carried to the Stake, where the two Sisters, who had before been at Variance, most kindly kiss'd and embraced one another several times. They went all off the Stage, crying to God to have Mercy upon them, and that the Lord Jesus would receive their Spirits.

The following is the Copy of a LETTER which William Howard gave to the Printer hereof; having sent the Original, as he said, to some Friend of his, but would not name who.

My Good Friend,

THE unfortunate Station I am in, and the certain Hopes of Death, causes me to reflect upon the many Crimes I have been guilty of; and as the Inducement thereto was the Love of Idleness, and dissolute Company, I earnestly beg of you (and think it a Duty incumbent upon me to warn you of my approaching Fate) to desire you to consider the ill Consequence of keeping such Company, and refrain the Society of all Persons you know or suspect to be Guilty of any such Crimes for which I suffer, and of which I have been too Guilty. I ear

nestly intreat you not to frequent those Houses and Places of ill Resort, which are always open and ready to receive and encourage such as incline to frequent them; and hope the Example of a Friend under my Circumstances may be more prevalent than all those others which we have both seen and heard of. And that you will always remember the Fatal End of,

Your Dying Friend,

W. H.

And just before the Cart drew off, deliver'd a Paper, being the Speech he made to the Audience, and desired it might be inserted herein, which is as follows:

Good People,

NO doubt but many of you here, out of Curiosity to behold my Misfortune, more than to Profit by my Example; the Crime for which I suffer I acknowledge myself guilty of; and as my Sentence was just, so is my Punishment reasonable, and agreeable to the Laws of the Land.

Good People, I beg of you all that are here present, and hear me, to take Warning by me; and let the Example of my Suffering be an Inducement to all that are guilty of such Crimes as I have committed, to refrain from them and from all Inducements and Temptations that lead thereto; for however reguardless we may be of the Consequences thereof, and hope to escape Punishment here yet in the Hour of Death they will occasion the most severe Reflections; and the Apprehensions of a future Judgment will be so terrible that all the Pleasure and Satisfaction that can be receiv'd from the Commission of those Crimes, will not be answerable to the Terrors of one Moment's Reflection at the Time of Death. I acknowledge myself to have been guilty of a great Number of Crimes, and have no room to hope for Mercy, but through the Merits of Jesus Christ, the Saviour and Redeemer of Mankind, thro' whose Merits only I hope for Salvation; and beg the Prayers of all who hear me at the Time of my Departure. I hope no Person or Persons will be so unchristian like to reflect on my Friends and Relations.

This is all the Account give by me,

JAMES GUTHERIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

(This Day is publish'd,)

The First VOLUME, containing Twelve Numbers, Price 6 d. each, of

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions House in the Old-Bailey, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Times; chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. These Trials are not to be met with in any other Collection.

Printed for J. Wilford behind the Chapter House, near St. Paul's Church-yard.

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictments, and other Persons concern'd in Prosecutions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers; and every Number contains more in Quantity, and is cheaper than any thing ever publish'd this Way.

This Collection of Trials are Published once a Fortnight, at Six-pence each Number.

Murder.

EDward Ely , Matthew Clark , Dr. Fabricius, Will. Makepeace , C-T- James Shaw , John Smith , Isaac Ingram , Edward Vaughan and Phil. Cholmley , Robert Hicks , Geo. Cheshire , William Hill , Isaac Francis Nicholson , John Nichols , Will. Chun , Matthias Brinsden , Robert Wilkinson and James Lincoln , Mary Bolton , Paul Crony , Sarah Brown , William Audley and Ralph Emmery Y- M-, Charles Weaver , Eliz. Healy and William Smith , L- A- Mary Radford , Pleasant Bateman , Griffith Williams , Luke and Martin Nunny , Nath. Irish , George Smith , Joseph Buckingham , Samuel Lloyd , James Simkin and William Hassel , James Wayley , Will. Hawksworth , Tho. Athoe and Tho. Athoe , Frances Coats and Eliz. Richardson , John Stanley , Lewis Houssart , Constantine Macgennis , Henry Luttereland Ann Butler , David Bathey , Cha. Harrison , Esq ;

Privately stealing from the Person, to the Value of

1 s. is Death.

Sarah Thompson , Abigal Smith , Bridget Noland , Sarah Johnson and Mary Price , Mary Rotberts , Susan Miller and Eliz. Marsh , Eliz. Angier , Susan Coultis and Margaret Mason . Mary Bun , and Eliz. Mob , Sarah Jackson and Mary Sharp , Mary Harvey and Ann Parker , alias Peak , Jane Bean , Alice Phenix , Will. Smith , Catherine Ward , Margaret Wright , Margaret Fisher , Mary Bodkin , Calico Sarah , Ann Price , Elizabeth Mordant , Susan Hutchins , Ann James , Sarah Thornton , Frances Slade .

Privately stealing in the Shop, Warehouse, or

Stable, to the Value of 5 s. is Death.

Tho. Knight, Mary Hambleton and Tho Cross , Paul Crony , Sir Charles Burton , Joseph and Mary Chandler , Ruth Arnold , Jane Martin , William Page .

Robberies on the Highway, &c.

Tho. Elmes , Tho Butler , William Spiggot , Tho. Phillips , Will. Burroughs and William Heater , William Barton , John Winship , Will. Wade , John Bickerton , James Reading , John Wigley , Martin Mac Owen and Will. Casey , John alias Richard James , John Dykes , Butler Fox , Nathaniel Haws , James Wright , Will. Colthouse , John Colthouse , Christopher Murphey , Tho. Sinnamond ; James Shaw and Richard Norton , John James , Tho. Picket and Henry Avery , Thomas Reeves , John Hartley and Francis Hackabout , John Casey , John Hawkins and Geo. Simpson , John Molony and James Carrick , Nath. Jackson and John Murphey . John Cole . Rob. Wilkinson , James Lincoln , James Shaw . Will. Burridge . Rich Oakley and Tho. Milksop . Tho. Wilson and Samuel Cole . Tho. Phelps . Tho. Etheridge . James Sparry and Edward Raymond . John Casey and Arthur Hughs . Edmund Neal and Wil. Pincher . John Levee and Matt. Flood . Will. Bourk . James Cannon and Geo. Williams . Will. Duec and James Buttler . Humphry Angier . Nathaniel Armstrong . Elizabeth Angier . Hugh Kelly . Henry Savage . Job Orchard . John Allen . Tho. Williams . Tho. Burdon . Edw. Joice . James Harman and Lumley Davis . John Wright . Francis and Benjamin Brightwell .

Stealing in the House, to the Value of 40 s. is

Death.

Robert Hunter and Geo. Post . Eliz. Wells . Will. Field . Ann Merrick and Elizabeth Field . John Tranton and Philip Storey . Jonathan Howell and Temperance Walker . Nath. Haws . Tho. Sinnamond . John Duval and Mary Bright . Cha. John and James Bradshaw . Tho. Butloge . Mary Rogers . Ann Merrick . Hnmphry Jones . Ann Jones . Joseph Allen and Frances Allen . Henry Inon . Richard Winn . Henry Thomas and Samuel Gibbons . Richard Whiting and John Mackey . Tho. Saunders . Eliz. Angier .

Assaults, Frauds, Riots and other Misdemeanors.

Jacob Will. Harris : Barbara Spencer : Lady Smith and Lady Green: Will. Colthouse : Cha. Maccave : Edw. Dun and Edw. Galloway : Will. Bristow : Benjamin King : Alexander Day : Sally Salisbury : Charles North : John Lant : Richard Ayres : David Kite and John Ambler : Henry Kelly : Jane Martin .

Rapes and Attempts to Ravish.

Will. Robbins : M-L- John Weston . Christop. Sam. Krafft . James Booty : Edward Fox

Cha. Maccatty : Gerrard Bourn and Jonas Penn : H-J- Arthur Gray .

Receiving stolen Goods.

James Hogg . Thomas Cross . Thomas Glanister . Nath. Glanister. John Martin . Johanny Grundy . Katherine Cook and Katherine Keys .

Single Felonies.

Susan Gilman . John Thompson . Mary Davis and Elizabeth Askew . Elizabeth Harris . Christopher Henry Kleinsmeide . Alexander Day . Quilt Arnold and Daniel Soams .

Taking Money, on Pretence of re-storing stolen

Goods.

John Thompson , Edward Wotton . George Beal . Charles Motherly and John Hornby .

Harbouring Felons.

William Page .

Coining.

Barbara Spencer . Alice Hall and Elizabeth Bray . Joseph Cooper and Elizabeth Reeve .

Returning from Transportation.

John Meff . Calico Sarah .

Burglary.

John Meff and John Wood . Will. Field . John Harris . John White . John Trantum and Philip Story . Arthur Gray . Jonah Burgess . Simon Jacobs . Tho. Glanister . Mary Darbieau . Rich. Trantum . Patrick Clifford . Joseph Watson and Will. Smith . Jeremy Garraway and Tho. Sly . Cha. North and Stephen Gardener . Tho. and Dorothy Williams . Peter Curtis , and Thomas James Grundy . Will. Parkinson . John Sheppard . Joseph Blake . Edw. Betty . Katherine Cook and Katherine Keys . Edgworth Bess.

Forgery.

Geo. Nicholas . Frederick Schimdt .

Horse stealing.

Will. Burridge . John Harriot .

Sodomy, and sodomitical Practices.

George Duffus . John Dicks . Tho. Rodin . Cha. Banner .

Compounding Felony.

John Smith .

Bigamy.

Lewis Houssart .

New-Minters.

Charles Towers . John Webb . John Bowler . John Tibbs . John Tims . Will. Green . Richard Edward . Henry Ireson and Thomas Earle . Job Orchard . Prosecuted by the New-Minters.

Electuarium Mirabile: Or, The Admirable Electuary.

WHICH infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed and Safety, than any Medicine yet published; Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Over strain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents, being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easy in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases. To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author. Dr. CAM, a graduate Physician, who had published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden Ball in Bow-Church-yard, Cheapside, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-seller's-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with on any occasion. And tho' by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll ertainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Veneral Disease in three Parts, viz.

I, On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses; whether from Veneral Embraces, Self-pollution improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaeas or Clap. III. On the Veneral Lines, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout, Price 6d: His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Dissertation on the Pox. Dedicated to Sir Hans Sloane . Price 1 s. 6 d. All sold by G. Strahan in Cornhill; J. Wilford behind the Chapter-Coffee-House, St. Paul's Church-yard, and at the Author's House before mention'd.

