THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 17th, of this Instant, April, 1730.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol - Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir Richard Brocas , Knt . Lord – Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Price; the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson; the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Raby; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery for the City of London, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, being the 25th, 26th, 27th, and 28th of February, 1729-30, in the Third Year of His Majesty's Reign.

Nine Men, viz. Richard Hawson , William Newcomb , Peter Rivers , John Carter , Francis Hackabout , Stephen Dowdale , Ferdinando Shrimpton , Robert Drummond , and Francis Chartres , and one Woman, viz. Elizabeth Doyle were Convicted and found Guilty of Capital Crimes by the Jury.

Elizabeth Doyle was indicted for returning from Transportation, and pleaded guilty to the said Indictment. She receiv'd Sentence of Death with the rest, but being assur'd of his Majesty's most gracious Pardon, she never attended in Chappel, and was set at Liberty upon a bailable Warrant, upon the third or fourth Day after they receiv'd Sentence.

They were exhorted to believe in Christ Jesus, as the Son of God, equal to the Father, and the only Saviour of lost Mankind, who suffer'd, that we might rejoyce; who died, that we might live; who rose again, that we might awake from the Death of Sin, and live unto God, unto Righteousness and Holiness of Life; who ascended unto Heaven, that we might eternally Triumph with God the Father, Son and Holy Ghost in his heavenly Kingdom and Glory: This Doctrine I press'd upon them, as being the Ground-work and Foundation of all Christianity: For there is one God, and one Mediator between God and Men, the Man Christ Jesus; who gave himself a Ransome for all, to be testified in due Time. 1 Tim. ii. 5, 6. They having been of very corrupt Lives, I told them the only way to escape the Wrath to come was, to reform and amend the Evil of their Ways and Doings, to repent 'em of their past Sins, and firmly to resolve (if it should please God in his Providence to spare them) upon a new Life for the future, to double their Deligence in improving the short Time allow'd them, by the Lenity of their Judges, in working out their Souls Salvation with Fear and Trembling; which is the readiest way to procure God's Favour, whether with respect to this World, or the Life to come. I shew'd them the great Evil and Mischief of Theft and Robbery, which if it were allow'd, would utterly subvert and overthrow all civil Government and Society among Mankind; and as to the dreadful Consequences, with respect to those who are found Guilty of such horrid Crimes, I let them see, that a Thief and Robber is stigmatiz'd all the World over, with a note of Infamy and Reproach, and wherever he can be apprehended and convicted, he's reputed unworthy to live any longer, or to breathe in the common Air.

Drummond, and particularly Shrimpton having been convicted of Murder and Robbery; I represented to them the Barbarity, the Cruelty and Inhumanity of that heinous Sin. In all other Sins one may make some Reparation, but in case of Murther, there is no possibility of Satisfaction, since one being depriv'd of his precious Life, he ceases to be any more in this World, and being thus hurried out of Time, the Murderer does, what in him lies, to destroy both Soul and Body at once; and if God should suddenly strike him with a Thunderbolt from Heaven, for exercising such Cruelty upon his Fellow-Creature, made also after the Similitude of God, with what a Face should he appear before the tremendous Divine Tribunal, and how just must he own his eternal Confusion and Condemnation to be? I shew'd them how the Vengeance of God pursues the Murderer, as is evident in the Instance of Cain, the Family of the Kings of Judah, Ahub King of Israel, and Judas Iscariot, who betray'd Christ and many others: and that seldom, if ever, the Murderer escapes Punishment even in this World, I spoke upon the Sin of Uncleanness, how unreasonable, how brutish it is, and that it alienates the Mind and Affections from God: But the Ears of some, who very much wanted this Admonition, were altogether shut to such Exhortations. I instructed them in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, that they having been early dedicated to God in Baptism, and having broken their baptismal Vows in innumerable Instances, it was necessary to renew themselves by Repentance, and in Evidence of their Sincerity, to partake in the other Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, wherein Christ and all the Blessings of the New Covenant was ensur'd and made over to them I was at a considerable deal of Pains in speaking upon this Subject, of which they were very ignorant, and when they had attain'd some competent Knowledge, most of them were very desirous to receive it.

While under Sentence, Those who were constantly at publick Devotion appear'd Grave, and made regular Responses, as they could, but with an awkward Grace, and did not seem to be so deeply affected, as Men ought to be in such deplorable Circumstances. Ferdinando Shrimpton was sick and in a high Fever for some Days; he appeared always very desirous of Devotion and Instruction, and was earnest to come up to Chappel, which he did before he was able to walk, by the assistance of his Wife and others, and behav'd himself decently. Peter Rivers and John Carter appear'd very Sullen and Morose, only one of them was sometimes a little officious in directing a little Discourse to his Visiters; but so soon as he saw that he was ob

served, he sily compos'd himself, and was very quiet. Hanson behav'd indifferently, and Newcomb was very Grave. Francis Hackabout behav'd indifferently well, but pretty impatient, because they would not allow him what Time he had a mind to, in going to and returning from Chappel, that his Friends might bestow upon him a Quantity of Liquor to his liking. Stephen Dowdale attended in Chappel, and wept often, while had Health, and when he was in a high Fever in the Cell, he was very desirous of Prayers, although, not in his right Senses, and always seem'd and declar'd himself very Penitent. He was perplex'd, because he was convicted upon his own Confession, and having given himself up for an Evidence, he fail'd in his Proof. He reflected much upon the Wickedness of a Gang of Thieves and Robbers, who were Partners with him in his Villainies. Robert Drummond never came to Chappel but two or three Days, after which he feign'd himself sick, on purpose to form his Escape; and this Design he thought to put in Execution, upon Sunday Night, the 15th of March, but being discover'd by the Keepers, he was double iron'd and put into another Cell for more Security. Although he was in good Health, yet upon no Entreaties would he move himself from his Bed to come to Chappel, and when I exhorted him to attend the publick Worship of God, as a principal Means of Salvation, he turn'd Passionate, and said, that for all the Clergy in Britain, he would not say or do any thing but what he had a mind to. When I pray'd for him he was attentive, but otherwise of the most cross inflexible Temper I ever saw in his miserable Circumstances. Francis Charteris would not come to Chappel, nor hear Prayers in private, but said he was a bigotted Presbyterian, and that if he wanted Prayers, he would call for a Presbyterian Divine.

Stephen Dowdale , of St. Bride's , was indicted for feloniously stealing a Gold Watch, value 20 l. in the House of Thomas Martin , on the 30th of August last. He was a second Time indicted of St. Martin's in the Fields , for feloniously stealing a Diamond Ring, value 30 l. in the Shop of John Treble , on the 25th of August last.

Stephen Dowdale , about 40 Years of Age, born in Ireland of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, and caus'd him to be instructed in the Principles of Christianity. He was of no particular Trade, but serv'd in the Wars of Flanders , in Queen ANNE's Reign, and was a Serjeant in an Irish Regiment of Dragoons, and serv'd to the Satisfaction of his Officers, till after the Peace, when (as he said) he was to be made a Quarter Master of Dragoons; they were brought home to Ireland and disbanded. Then being put to his Shifts, after he had pass'd some Time in his own Country, he resolv'd upon new Adventures, and pitch'd upon the City of London , and Parts adjacent, for the Scene of his Actions. There he apply'd himself to the Gaming Tables, and ventur'd very high with one of the most noted Gamesters in the Kingdom, to whom he was indebted above 200 l. but left him to seek Payment from one of the Cells of Newgate, where he was arrested without putting his Creditor to any Trouble of confining him for Debt. Dowdale not succeeding in his Gaming, joyn'd himself to a Society of above 9 or 10 Persons who were resolved to raise Contributions on the Highway. In this he succeeded without being discover'd, and acted the Beau for some Years; during which Time, he, with his Companions committed innumerable Robberies in Town and Country; till at length wearied of this Life, he resolved to prevent his Associates, and voluntarily surrender'd himself, and gave up a List of several, some of whom escaped out of the Constables Hands, others kept out of the way, and they whom he prosecuted were acquitted. But his own Vices turning upon him, he was convicted upon the two Indictments mentioned above, both which Robberies came to be known only by his own Confession. It was thought his Life would have been spar'd, if he had liv'd to enjoy that Blessing. Under his Sentence, he behav'd with great Resignation, and falling sick, always appear'd very Penitent, till the Fever increasing more and more upon him, he for several Days lost all his Senses, and as he was alone lock'd up in the Cell, he gave up the Ghost, upon Sunday Morning, the 5th Day of this Instant April.

Upon Friday the 10th of the said Month, the Report of the above 8 Men was made to his Majesty in Council, when Francis Charteris , for a Rape committed on the Body of Anne Bond , a Servant Maid , received his Majesty's most gracious Pardon, and was bail'd out upon the said 10th of April, at the Sessions holden at Justice-Hall in the Old Baily ; and Richard Hanson of St. Botolph's, Bishopsgate , receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining Six, viz William Newcomb , Peter Rivers , John Carter , Francis Hackabout , Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond , were order'd for Execution.

Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond , alias Godfrey , alias Bell , of St. John's, Hackney , were indicted, the former for the Murder of Simon Prebent , by giving him one mortal Wound with a Pistol Bullet in the Arm, the length of half an Inch, and the depth of three Inches, the 12th of January last; and Robert Drummond being present, aiding and abetting. They were also indicted a second Time, for assaulting Samuel Tyson , Esq ; on the Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him a Silver Watch, and 10 s. in Money, on the 12th of January last.

Ferdinando Shrimpton and Robert Drummond , were indicted a 3d Time, for assaulting Robert Furnel on the Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him a Gelding, value 12 l. a Watch, and a Guinea and a half, and some Silver, and a Whip, the 18th of January last.

They were indicted a 4th Time, for assaulting Jonothan Cockup , on the Highway, and taking from him a Bay Gelding, value 10 l. two Hampers, five roasting Pigs, and several Joints of Pork, and other Goods, the 14th of January last.

Ferdinando Shrimpton , about 30 Years of Age, was Educated at School in Reading and Writing to fit him for Business, and was instructed in the necessary Principles of Christianity. His Father was a very irregular, disorderly Man, and one of the greatest Highwaymen in England; which Profession he follow'd for many Years, and although he liv'd in the City of Bristol, yet not known to be a Person that used to collect upon the Highway. But as some Constables were going into a publick Inn, in quest of some other suspicious Persons, Shrimpton, conscious of his own guilt, thought they sought for him, and rashly taking out a Pistol, he shot one of the Officers dead, and at the next Bristol Assizes, he was try'd and convicted of Murder. He express'd a great Regret for this, and declar'd, that it was upon a Mistake he murder'd the Man, as thinking they had come to take him up for innumerable Robberies, in commission of which he had us'd People civilly, which was the reason of his passing undiscover'd for many Years. He was at Bristol

hang'd in Chains for the said Murder. So we see Vice as well as Virtue often runs in the Blood; for the Son did not resolve to be long behind his Father. He was not put to any Trade, but being of a good Size serv'd as a Soldier in the Guards, and when his Pay could not serve his extravagant Demands, he made the Highway make up the Deficiency. He robb'd a Gentleman on Hounslow Heath lately, and when this Person heard they were apprehended, he went to the New - Gaol in Southwark , and upon Payment of a Guinea, Shrimpton and Drummond told him where he might recover his Horse, value 15 l. but they would not tell him any thing of his Watch, for fear of bringing the Pawnbroker to Trouble. When under Sentence, upon desire of that Person, I ask'd Shrimpton about the Watch, and told him that it was his Duty to restore stollen Goods to the utmost of his Power; he would not trust a Stranger for fear of disobliging the Pawn-broker, but sent his Wife, who immediately brought the Watch, upon delivery of 34 Shillings to the said Pawn-broker; Shrimpton restor'd the Watch, and then was in a Rage, and swore, because the Person gave him but half a Crown instead of a Guinea, as had been promis'd; but the Gentleman not having known any thing of the 34 s. upon the Watch, did not think himself bound to pay 21 s. more. Shrimpton was enrag'd, and behav'd very indecent one Day in the Chappel upon this Account, for which he was threaten'd by the Keepers, and all that can be said upon this Head is, that the Biter was bit. Upon a Sunday he spoke rudely to some Gentlemen Prisoners for looking or pointing at him, as he supposed; and when I discoursed or preached upon Murder, although he had been guilty of a most vile and inexcusable Murder, he laugh'd and talk'd to his Companions, and made little or nothing of all the Villainies he had committed. After all as could be said upon confessing his Sins, he laid it down for a fix'd Rule, that he would confess nothing, only that once he said in general, no doubt, but he had been a great Sinner. He was an audacious, stubborn, cruel, and unadviseable Fellow, although at first when he was sick, he appear'd Penitent, yet his Sincerity may be much doubted of.

Robert Drummond , about 48 or 50 Years of Age, of honest Parents, who gave him indifferent good Education for Business. When of Age, he dealt in hard Wares, married a Wife, and liv'd in some Town about Sunderland in the North, in pretty good Reputation for some Years; but being of an unwieldy and unsettl'd Disposition, he could not keep himself at constant Business, although in a good way to maintain his Family, but took himself to the Highway and all manner of Extravagancies. He was taken up and transported for his Crimes, but he return'd from Transportation, continu'd in his former wicked Courses, and was one of the most forward and mischievous Robbers in England, for several Years. His Brother, James Drummond , was by his Advice, persuaded to go and rob upon the Highway, and for the first two Facts, he never having done any more, he was taken-up, convicted and executed about three-Months ago. He and Shrimpton having been of a Size with Westwood and Nowland, were blam'd for the Robbery, forwhich they were lately executed. This they did not positively deny, only said, they could not commit all the Robberies in the Country. At this rate, Drummond was the Ruin not only of his own, but his Brother's Family, and some others besides. Drummond and Shrimpton were Partners for a considerable Time, and both of them were of a savage, cruel Temper: A signal Instance of which is, that they us'd to shoot sharp Shot at any Person who rode or run away, in order to make their Escape from them, and it was in this desperate Way, that Shrimpton murder'd Mr. Tyson's Coachman. They desired William Shrimpton , who was Evidence against them, to go in their Company to Lambeth upon Twelfth-Day last, and as they walk'd along the Road, tho' he knew not any thing of their Intent, nor had any Arms, they threaten'd to murder him, if he did not assist and comply with their unlawful Measures. They attack'd and robb'd the first Person they met. William Shrimpton was first Cousin to Ferdinando Shrimpton , and after this he went along with them in all their Adventures, till all three were taken, which was soon after. I ask'd William, who now lies under Sentence of Death for other Facts, of which he was convicted last Sessions, what number of Robberies they had committed in that short Time? He said, that he could not tell, for Ferdinando and Drummond drove furiously, and acted more like mad Men, than Creatures endow'd with Reason. They went abroad like a roaring Lyon, seeking whom they may devour, and commonly robb'd nine or ten in a Night; and they ruin'd William Shrimpton a young Fellow at once, by forcing him to commit Robberies, and he could not get of again, till they were all taken, and then he became an Evidence against the other Two. Drummond upon no Intreaties, nor by no means, could be persuaded to come to Chappel. When I urg'd him to confess his Sins (which he resolv'd not to do) and to attend the publick Worship of God, he flew into a Passion. He was one of the boldest, most obstinate and self-will'd Malefactors I ever saw, and had few Signs of Repentance.

Francis Hackabout , of St. Mary Islington , was indicted for assaulting Aaron Durel on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Peruke, value 20 s. and a Guinea, and two or three Shillings in Silver, the 28th of January last.

He was also indicted a second Time, for assaulting George Bailey on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Watch, two Guineas, and 17 Shillings in Silver, the 28th of January last.

Francis Hackabout , 28 Years of Age, born in the Suburbs of London , of honest Parents, who put him to School, but was of such a perverse Disposition, that he would never learn any thing to the purpose, and had forgot either to Read or Write. He was a Sailor by Profession, and could have earn'd his Living very well by the Sea, but was of such an inconstant Temper, that he could not keep to Business. He had a covetous Eye upon every thing he could lay his Hands upon from his Childhood, and exercis'd himself in all the different Kinds of Theft; and that he might have a Pretence to some way of Living, he listed himself a Soldier , and then he join'd to a Gang of the most notorious Street-Robbers, who have been in London of a long Time. He was inform'd against, when Levee, Featherby, Burnham, &c. were taken up, but they being executed, there was no Evidence against him, and he was at last let out of Prison. When he was nam'd as one of the Street-Robbers, this forc'd him to desert, so that his Life was forfeited to the Law upon a double Account. A certain Person (as he said) promis'd to save his Life, this gave him some hopes, but his After-disappointment made him uneasy. He own'd that he had been a very profligate Youth, in Swearing, Drinking, Whoring, and a most notorious Robber and Thief, and that therefore God in Justice had afflicted him. He denied that he committed the Robbery for

which he was convicted, and alledg'd that the Evidence were mistaken as to the Person; and as to this, he made solemn Protestations both in private, publickly in Chappel, and upon other Occasions, before several People. He said, since he got out of Newgate last, he committed no Street nor Highway Robberies, and that he had not been guilty of Thieving, but pilfering of some small petty Things, which proves, that he had not put on firm Resolutions of Amendment. He was very ignorant of Religious Matters, and I did what I could to instruct him. He appear'd always very devout and penitent, and behav'd decently, and he frequently wept. He declar'd, he believ'd in Christ his Saviour, repented sincerely of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

John Carter and Peter Rivers , of Uxbridge , were indicted for assaulting Henry Howard on the Highway, putting him in fear of his Life, and taking from him 3 s. and 4 d. in Money, a Pair of Silver Buckles, and a Cork-screw, &c. on the 24th of January last.

Peter Rivers , 57 Years of Age, (as he said) born in the Country, of honest Parents who educated him at School in Reading and Writing, to fit him for Business; and when of Age, put him an Apprentice to a Shoe-maker . He serv'd his Time honestly and married a Wife, and liv'd in Credit at Great Marlow in Buckinghamshire , many Years. He said, that he always liv'd soberly, and endeavour'd to do Justice to every Man, that he kept a good, regular Family, and took Care to instruct his Children in Christian Principles. He never thiev'd nor robbed any but in the particular Instance of which he was convicted, and the occasion of that was, his falling into Decay in the World, and not knowing what to do, a certain Person advis'd him to go and raise Contributions on the Highway, which Temptation he too readily yielded to; and accordingly provided himself with Fire-arms, and other Materials proper for his Design, and went out upon no Purchase, no Pay; but being a Novice in the pernicious Art of Thievery, he fail'd in his first Adventure, and was immediately taken, and brought to condign Punishment for his Wickedness and Folly. He always behav'd decently and with apparent Devotion, and profess'd himself a true Penitent. He was much troubl'd at the shameful Death he was to suffer, and the Disgrace it brought upon his Family and Relations, but said, that he submitted to the Will of God, and own'd the Justice of his Sentence according to Law. He died in the Faith of Christ, Penitent for all his Sins, and in Peace with all the World.

William Newcomb , was indicted for Burglariously breaking the Houses of Mr. Philip Barret , and Henry Hoare , Esq ; in the Night Time, the 18th of January last, with an Intent to steal.

William Newcomb , 19 Years of Age, born of honest Parents, who gave him good Education in Reading and Writing, and got him instructed in Christian Principles. He was of a peevish, sullen, morose Temper when young, and did not well agree with his Parents. When of Age, he was put ' Prentice to a Shoe-maker in Gracechurch-street . When he had staid there two or three Years, he robbed his Master of a considerable Sum of Money, who not willing to disgrace him, put away. He did not think fit to stay long at his Father's, who no doubt upbraided him with the villainous Action he had committed, but went about the Town seeking his Prey, and pitch'd upon Mr. Jenkins's, the Banker, in Lombard-street , where sometimes he us'd to espy round Sums of Money. He went into St. Edmund the King's Church at Morning Prayer, and sculk'd at the foot of the Bellfry till the Evening; then he got up upon the top of the Leads, and got in at the Top of Mr. Jenkins's House, the second Door from the Church. As they were shutting up the Shop, they heard some Noise above, and the Footman was afraid to go up Stairs to see what was the Matter, without another in Company; by this Time he had got down to the Foot of the Stairs, and stood quietly behind the Door, and finding his Way clear, no-Body being in the Shop, he went in, and in a Minute or two, laid hold upon Gold, valued at more than 800 l. having got this Prize in his Clutches, he turn'd about the Key in the inside, open'd the Shop Door, and slipt off undiscerned: and the honest Gentleman never knew whom to blame for this great Loss, till of late the young Rogue told it to Mr. Hoare, after he was put in Newgate for the Crime for which he died. Being thus furnish'd with plenty of Money, he set up for a Beau, bought two fine Geldings, hir'd a Footman who wore a Livery, and went down to the Horse Races at Newmarket . He there found a way to dispose of his Money; for in six or seven Months, he was near the bottom of his Pocket, and coming to London for a new Supply, he thought the readiest way was to borrow a little from another Banker, where ready Cash may commonly be had; but the Gentleman not liking Newcomb's manner of Address, assign'd him his Lodgings in Newgate , till such time as he should be call'd in Question for his Indiscretion. He behav'd with abundance of Civility and Decency, both in Publick and Private, and profess'd Penitence for his great and many Sins, but did not seem so deeply affected, as became one in his deplorable Circumstances. He own'd, that he had been a great Sinner in Drinking, Whoring, Swearing, Robbing, &c. but was not so much guilty that way as most of those Creatures use to be, for he was crop'd in the Bud. He begg'd Pardon of God and Man for heinous Offences, declar'd that he believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, repented sincerely of all his Sins, and forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

Upon Wednesday the 15th Instant, John Carter receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for eight Days, till Wednesday next.

At the Place of EXECUTION,

DRummond and Shrimpton, were two of the most unconcern'd and obdurate of any I have seen, and continued so to the last. Hackabout most solemnly protested, that he did not commit the Fact for which he was convicted. A Butcher at Islington being present, desir'd to ask him, if he was not the Person who robbed him and his Wife of some Money, his Shoes and Silver Buckles, &c. as they were going Home in a Coach, two Nights before he committed the Robbery for which he was to suffer? Hackabout answer'd, he was not; and thank'd the honest Man, that he did not appear as Evidence against him in a doubtful Affair; he said further, that he had not been Master of any Fire-Arms for two or three Years past. The Wife of Newland, who was lately executed, was allow'd to come into the Cart, to ask Shrimpton and Drummond, if Newland and one Westwood committed the Robbery for which they died, or if it was not Drummond and Shrimpton who did it? They were offended and a little Surly at this Question; but when press'd to give a positive Answer, they said, Would you have us to take upon ourselves all the Robberies that are committed in the Country? They all went of the Stage, (adding nothing to their former Confessions) crying out with a loud Voice, Lord have Mercy upon our Souls, for Christ's Sake.

ADVERTISEMENT.

This Day is publish'd,

The Second Edition, (with many Additions and Amendments) of

A Practical Treatise: Or, Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts, viz. I. On the Simple Gonorrhoea, Gleets, and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-Pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecillity. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhoea, or Clap. III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox. Wherein are plainly shew'd, the exact Degrees of Difference; with their Signs, Symptoms, Prognosticks, and Cures, in all Cases; their Beginnings, Progress, and fatal Periods, when neglected, or unskillfully managed; and how their absolute Cure, without Violence, on Injury, is completed. With proper and effectual Remedies, in their several Stages, prescribed and recommended therein. With some Remarks on the preposterous Way of Venery, with Machines, &c. and a plain Discovery of the Dangers (tho' little expected) which attend that vile Practice. And many other useful Discoveries relating to Infections in both Sexes, not before taken Notice of. To which is annexed, a Vindication of the Practice of Salivations; being an Answer to Monsieur Chicogneau's Pamphlet against Mercurial Salivations, no way derogatory to Dr. Turner's Answer on the same Subject. by Joseph Cam , M. D . Printed for the Author; and sold by G. Strahan in Cornhill, W. Mears without Temple. Bar, C. King in Westminster Hall, E. Midwinter on Londonbridge, and Mrs. Baker over-against Hatton-Carden in Holbourn. Price. 2 s.

London : Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Black-Fryers .

