THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the FIVE MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the 25th of MARCH, 1751.

BEING THE Fourth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble Francis Cokayne , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER IV. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LI.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable FRANCIS COKAYNE , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London , Sir MARTIN WRIGHT , Knt . Mr. Justice GUNDRY, and Mr. Baron SMYTHE, and RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City, and County of Middlesex, at Justice Hall, in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 27th, Thursday the 28th of February; Friday the 1st, Saturday the 2d, and Monday the 4th of March, in the Twenty-fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign, JOSEPH BOROUGHS , JOHN CARR , GEORGE BERTIE , HENRY GROVER , RICHARD BUTLER , MARY CARNEY , and JOHN ATKINS , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

The Behaviour of these unhappy Wretches, as far as I can answer for it, was not otherwise than would become People in their Circumstances. Boroughs, Bertie, Grover, and Atkins were present at Divine Service every Day, unless Sickness prevented, and appeared attentive and devout. Carr. Butler, and Carney, being of the Romish Persuasion , were attended as usual by a proper Person.

On Tuesday the 5th Instant, the Report of 6 Malefactors was made by Mr. Recorder to his Majesty, when he was pleased to order the 5 following forExecution, viz. Joseph Boroughs , John Carr , Henry Grover , Richard Butler , and John Atkins , on Monday the 25th Instant, George Bertie was respited, till his Majesty's Pleasure be further made known concerning him. Mary Carney pleading Pregnancy, and being found quick with Child, was not included in the Report, in Conformity to the Custom in those Cases.

1. JOSEPH BOROUGHS , was indicted for forging and publishing a Warrant, or Order, for Payment of 1 l. 10 s. with Intent to defraud Sir Joseph Hankey , Knt. and Company, Jan. 30th .

2. RICHARD BUTLER was indicted, for falsely causing and procuring, and willingly assisting in making and counterfeiting a Seaman's Will, with Intent to defraud, Jan. 26th .

3. JOHN CARR , was indicted for forging and publishing a false Letter of Attorney, and also for publishing it, with Intention to defraud, Nov. 22d .

4. HENRY GROVER , was indicted for stealing one black Gelding, Val. 11 l. the Goods of Thomas Groves . Jan. 21st .

5. JOHN ATKINS , was indicted, for that he on the 24th of January, about the Hour of one in the Morning, the Dwelling-house of George Ebenezer , Pewterer , did break, and enter, and stealing out from thence, 1 Pound Weight of Copper, Val. 1 s. & 8 Leaden Sash Weights, the Goods of the said George Ebenezer .

1. HENRY GROVER , aged 25, was born in Kempton Parish , in the County of Hertford , and was bred to Husbandry-work , to plow, and harrow, and all the laborious Work which the Cultivation of the Ground requires. He lived there with his Parents for the Time of his Infant-State, his Father having been bred in the same Way before him, who also appeared to be a hard labouring Man, in great Grief for his unhappy Son's Fare. He was of Course soon sent from Home to get his Living, a poor ignorant Boy, without the least Education, as the Circumstances of the Family could not admit of it; and he work'd for some Years in the Parish where he was born, with several Persons, as they had Occasion for the Service of one bred in this Way. He went after this to live at Luton in Bedfordshire , and was employed by several Masters, as daily, monthly, or yearly Occasions offered; and as far as we can understand, did his Business, eat his Meat, and rubb'd on, as People thus brought up are us'd to do, without any Charge of Suspicion of Dishonesty; and after four Years of Labour in and about that Place, he removed himself to Hampstead , where, he says, he lived near four Years, and worked as Opportunity offered, and where-ever he could get Employ.

He never would own the stealing of the Horse, nor that he had ever been used to these Things; but that he was a hard working Man, and had always laboured to earn his Bread; and accounted for his coming by the Horse in the Manner following; viz. That oneDay going from Hampstead to London , at the Halsway House, between the two Places, he met with two Men, and particularized their Country; that he had work'd with them before, and seeing him going by, they called him in to drink, and during their Conversation, told him, they had a Horse to sell, but as they were not used to carry Horses to Market, they might make a bad one of him; that they were obliged to sell him, and as he had more the Appearance of a Countryman, the Horse might pass better off from his Hands, and he might get more Money for him than they thought they should do themselves. He refused, he says, at first, but they told him he should have Part of the Money, if he could get a Price for him, and they would rather he should have the selling of him than themselves. Accordingly, he says, they agreed it should be so, and they all three went together, sometimes one riding, and sometimes another, till they came to Enfield Chase .

When they came there, they held a Consultation upon the Matter, and agreed that the two Men should stay there at a Publick-House, while he went into Enfield Town to see for a Chapman; and the Hopes of getting Money to support him, being out of Business, and necessitous, induced him to comply with the Terms they proposed.

He went accordingly, in order to sell the Horse, and at their Direction, was to part with him for what he could get. They directed him also, he says, to change his Name, and to stand it out, if any Body should suspect he came dishonestly by the Horse. He offered him to Sale at a House in Enfield , but could not strike a Bargain. After this he went to another Person in the Neighbourhood, and would have sold him, but they suspected the Title he had to the Horse, and would know who he was, and how he came by him; and when they found he prevaricated, and declared himself to be the Person he was not, he was properly taken into Custody, and put into the Cage, as they thought very secure; but he found Means to escape from thence. He declared always he had never seen the two Men, who pretended to wait for his Return at Enfield Chase, nor could give any more Account of them, than that he had been used to work with them, and one went by the Name of Jemmy; the other's Name he did not remember. Finding himself however in a bad Scrape, he thought proper to take himself off the Ground, and away he went to Luton again, to shelter himself from the Clamour. The Prosecutor afterwards finding the Horse secured at Enfield, and having got Scent of the Person that exposed him to Sale, followed him to Luton , and found him at a Place where he had formerly been used to live, and brought him to Town. He had the Sense to own the attempting to sell, but would not to the last own the stealing. He was miserably ill at Conviction, and almost ever since; tho', towards the latter Part of his Time, he grew better, but at best very bad, and died scarce sensible of any Thing about him. He seemed naturally inclined to Laziness, nor would scarce take the Trouble to wash his Hands and Face; which brought on him a Disorder that almost stupify'd him, and so he died.

2. JOHN ATKINS , aged 34, was born in the Parish of St. Andrews, Holborn , and bred a Plaisterer . His Parents he says, were very honest, industrious People, and would have given him what Education their Circumstances could afford, but his Inclination was not that way turned, and when sent to School, he chose rather to loiter by the Way with any loose and idle Company; so that he scarce ever saw the Inside of the School. When he was about 12 Years old, it was thought fit to send him Abroad, as his Parents could do nothing for him, nor keep him within the Limits of their Directions. And finding but little Encouragement to stay at Home, he chose to be put Apprentice to a Plaisterer , with whom he lived for about a Year and a half, and then his Master dying, he was turned over to his Father, who was of the same Business. However, he said not long at Home, but being of an unsettled Temper, and not being indulged, as he expected, he went Abroad again, he says, and work'd at his Trade with several Masters, and when he was about 18 Years of Age, he married, and had several Children, two of whom are unhappy Survivors of his Fate, being left destitute. He lived most Part of his Time in the Parish of St. Andrew , but was always moving from Place to Place, so that he was scarce known to his Neighbourhood, before he got into a new one.

And no Wonder, it was not for his Purpose to be known in one Place long, for fear of being detected in his Roguery. For, he confesses, he has long been conversant in robbing Houses, getting in by Means of picklock Keys, which he and his Accomplices took Care to have a Store of, to suit almost all Locks. And about 10 Years ago, he was himself an Evidence against the Man, who was now Evidence against him, and upon whose Evidence, corroborated with other Circumstances, he was justly convicted. And various Robberies of this Kind, he owns, have his Accomplices and he been guilty of, within the Term of 10 Years. But his Memory was very shallow, and very few were they of that Number, which he chose to particularly own.

After he had escaped from this Trouble, as he called it, he says, he found no one in his own Trade would employ him; so he after some Time got to be a Carman , and drove Coal Carts by the Ditch Side for several Months; but could not forget his old Tricks. And having entered and robb'd a House somewhere in the Neighbourhood of St. Andrews , he was afraid of being detected, being pretty well known in that Parish, and Parts adjacent, so he removed himself and Family to Shadwell .

A few Days before his Execution, he voluntarily confess'd, that he and Hood had been concerned in getting into an uninhabited House in Fleet-Lane , by the same Means, as above; from whence they took at different Times, a great Parcel of Ironmonger's Goods, and also many Pieces of Houshold Furniture, which were mostlysold to a Man, that lived in the same Lane, who is since dead.

And he also voluntarily confess'd another Robbery of the same Kind, committed in an uninhabited House, in Newgate-Street , which was made a Warehouse of; from whence he and another stole and carried away 10 Cheeses, about two Men's Burthens, and left the Door locked as they found it, fastening it again by the same Means as they opened it.

The Fact he was convicted for, he would not confess in all its Circumstances, as appeared upon Trial; but was ingenuous enough to own himself concerned both in stealing and selling the Goods. But he would turn the Tables upon the Evidence, who said upon the Trial, Atkins fetch'd him in the Night, and told him there was a Job to be done; whereas he always declared to the last, that the Evidence fetch'd him from Shadwell that Day, and about Dusk they came together to Cow Cross , and in a publick House there they sat and drank till they went about their wicked Deed. After geting into the Prosecutor's House in Manner as aforesaid; they repaired to Hood's House, who had a Dwelling in the Neighbourhood, and there agreed upon disposing their ill-got Booty. He confess'd the Justice of his Sentence, and said he had a long Time deserved what he was thereby to suffer.

3. JOSEPH BOROUGHS , aged 28, was the unhappy Son of a Clergyman, of the Church of England, by his first Wife. This unfortunate young Man might have been thought to have been born to a better Fate, having been for a Number of Years carefully educated by his Father, who had brought him to no small Proficiency in the Greek and Latin Languages. But when he left Home, having no Fortune to subsist on, till some Provision was made for him in the World, (a fatal Thing which but two many have had Reason to remember) he was some Years ago sent over to Dublin , with an Intention to be enter'd into Trinity-College, in Order to compleat his Studies; but was disappointed by unforeseen Accidents, too common in human Affairs. During his Stay at Dublin, he had expended what little Stock he had, and having got married, was reduced to great Straits and Necessities. He therefore thought himself then obliged to look out for some Business, and having made himself Master of the Pen, and Figures, he got to be Clerk to a Coachmaker , with whom he continued some Time. And after diverse other Vicissitudes in Life, into which he was perhaps, for Want of Judgment unhappily led; about four Years ago he came to London , where having been for some Months, he was recommended to and entertain'd as Clerk , by a worthy Alderman of this City of London, whom he well and truly served in that Capacity for about seven Months.

When he left this Master's Service he was recommended by him, as he says, to one of the most honourable Men in the World, with whom he lived about two Years and an Half, without ever wronging or defrauding him of oneShilling; but being discharged his Service about Midsummer last, hath ever since endured much Hardship. Some Part of the Time he got Employ, and did Jobs of Writing for Gentlemen of the Law ; at other Times he was without any Support for himself, Wife, and two Children, but what accrued from selling and pawning their Wearing-Apparel, &c. Some small Time after Christmas, Things still growing worse and worse, and no Hopes of meeting any Business in London , an apparent Impossibility of subsisting much longer put him upon the Thoughts of going with his Family to Jamaica; and accordingly he made Application to the Agents for the Commissioners of the Act of Settlement for that Island, and agreed with them to proceed thither, according to the Stipulations in the said Act. Their Passage was paid accordingly by the said Agents, to the Commander of a Ship bound to that Island; as appears by a Writing to that Purpose, which he left with me before the Day of his Death. He was however now exceedingly poor, and being unable to pay the Evidence, Mr. Gee, a Debt of 17 s. which he had contracted for Lodging, &c. for Wife and Children, and fearing to be stopt in his intended Voyage, he says, he inserted an Advertisement in the Daily Advertiser, setting forth his Want, and desiring the Assistance of the Humane, in order to make some small Provision for his Children in the Voyage, better than the Ship's Allowance; but nothing proceeding from that Advertisement, his Thoughts suggested to him, and he was tempted to forge a Draught on Sir Joseph Hankey and Co. for 30 s. thinking that small Sum sufficient for him during his Stay, which he imagined would have been but very short; but the Ship being detained by contrary Winds, Necessity urged him to commit another Crime, which was forging another Draught, of 20 l. Out of this, he says, he paid some Debts, and bought some Necessaries, and went down to Gravesend ; and that after he had been there a Week, a Person to whom he was indebted, being informed of his Design of going to Jamaica, had him arrested at Gravesend for a Debt of 13 l. This once more stript him of every Thing he had; he therefore came up to Town to attempt a third Fraud, which caused his being apprehended. If he had succeeded in that, he says, that he intended to have set out for Bristol, to prevent other Arrests, to have gone for Ireland, and waited at Cork for the Ship, which he knew was to touch there. This is the Purport of that Account which, according to Tuesday's Daily Advertiser, he advertised he had given to me under his own Hand-writing.

When Boroughs came to live with the worthy Alderman before-mention'd, the Question was put to him, whether he was a single or a married Man? He pretended to be a single Man; but after some Time it appeared to the contrary, and it was known in the House that he was married; and this is declared to be the only Cause why he was discharged from that Gentleman's Clerkship.

Boroughs was therefore recommended by his late Master to Mr. Revil, as a Person of whom he had a good Opinion;nor does it appear, that during the Time of his being in that Gentleman's Service, (of whom he speaks with the utmost Respect) there was Room for any Imputation or Charge against him of Dishonesty, or Want of Attention to Business; and as far as I can learn, some Disagreement between Boroughs and some of the Servants of the same House was the only Cause of his being discharged from thence.

That he laboured under great Hardships after he left Mr. Revil's Service, is certainly very true, as I was informed by some that were slender Acquaintance of his; who were so far Witnesses of it, as to have him come to them, and apply for a Morsel of Meat, and a Draught of Beer; with which they, seeing his Necessity, were charitably induced to supply him. His Necessities brought on Family Uneasinesses, which drove him to that too common Error of endeavouring to ease it by drinking; which was a Fault his Weakness made him too liable to. It was a hard Struggle for him to reconcile himself to his Fate, but at length he became quite calm and composed, under the Thoughts of its nearer Approaches, acknowledging the Justice of his Suffering, and earnestly entreating Forgiveness from God and Man for all his aggravated Crimes and Transgressions.

4. RICH. BUTLER , aged 35, was born in Turlus , a small Town in the County of Tiperary , in the Kingdom of Ireland , his Father being in good Circumstances and having eighteen Children at one Time to support, was under the indispensible Necessity of binding the Younger to Mechanicks, and as this unfortunate Man was rather more heavy and stupid than the Rest of his Brothers, and having no manner of Education to qualify himself for a higher Degree of Life, he was satisfied to embrace any menial State his Father was pleased to appoint him: Therefore when he arrived to the Age of fourteen Years, he was put Apprentice to a Baker (of no great Consequence) that lived in the City of Waterford , whom he served with great Fidelity untill his Time was expired; during the Course of his Servitude he was indefatigable in his Endeavours to attain to the Knowledge of his Business, and having the good Fortune to acquire the Love and Esteem of his Master (who represented his Carefulness and Assiduity to his Father in the most favourable Light) influenced his Father to entertain strong Hopes of his launching into the World with the Character of a hopeful and prudent young Fellow, and which encouraged him to furnish him with every Thing necessary to carry on his Trade; and giving him one hundred Pounds to lay in a proper Stock with, he settled in the same City he serv'd his Time in; where he, from the Advantages acruing from his Business, shortly redoubled that Sum, and might have acquired a decent Livelihood had he pursued the same industrious Life he so successfully began with, and evaded his present untimely End; but being puff'd up with an Immensity of Vanity and Pride at the Prospect of so large a Sum as he then thought he had in Possession, and keeping Company with a Set of

Neighbours, whose Abilities were far superior to his, that in less than twelve Months he squandered away his intire ready Money, and shortly after exhausted his Principle Stock in Trade by his repeated Profuseness; to these his extravagant Inclinations we must add his Delight in the Exercises of Hunting and Racing, and his Want of Judgment in laying Wagers upon these Occasions, which rendered him a Tool to the more Experienced, and was the utter Cause of his Ruin; his Career being thus stopped, and finding it impracticable to follow Trade any longer without a fresh Supply from his Father, he carried several Schemes into Execution in order to recover his Favour, and after many strenuous but fruitless Endeavours to that purpose, he found himself under the Necessity of leaving the City he so lately succeeded so well in, and retire to the Place of his Nativity, where forming several Designs to extort Money from his Relations, they expressed the greatest Marks of Scorn and Disdain to his Solicitations, and forc'd him to quit that Country, otherwise they would have recourse to Justice, and represent him as a Vagabond. Being covered with Shame and Confusion for this Disgrace, and convinced of the Consequence of his late bad Practices, he applied to a good natured Clergyman that lived in the same Parish, and bore the same Name, to use his good Offices with his Father to grant him but twenty Pounds and some Clothes, promising in the most sacred Manner never to annoy him more, which this Gentleman with great Difficulty, procured for him; and leaving Turlus very well mounted and equipp'd, he proceeded on his Journey for Corke , fully resolved never to return without making Amends for his bad Conduct; he was not very long in Corke before he got into an excellent Place of Work, and living in a very frugal Manner, he soon acquired the Esteem of all his Acquaintance, and adding to his little Stock, he was reputed a Man in tolerable Circumstances. In the Neighbourhood were he work'd there lived the Widow of a very ancient Custom house Officer, who had the Honour to serve 4 crown'd Heads successively (viz.) K. William, Q. Anne, K. George the First, and his present Majesty: She was but very young at the Time of his Decease, and he left her a very considerable Fortune; the Appearance Mr. Butler made being very genteel, and having frequent Opportunities to indulge himself with her Company, soon prevailed upon her to conclude a Marriage with him.

As soon as he had possess'd himself of her Fortune, he followed the Occupation of a Publican , in Cow-Lane , in that City, and giving very large Credit to seafaring Men, whose Payments are very uncertain; after five Years Residence in that Place, in Order to shun the Miseries of a Gaol, he found it absolutely necessary to quit the Kingdom and come to Plymouth , where he kept a House of Lodgers , near three Years; from thence he came to London , where he got acquainted with the Evidence Thomas Rogerman , and enter'd into a mutual Conspiracy to carry on these base Practices, and of defrauding his Majesty and his

Subjects of several large Sums of Money, but was at last pursued by the Hand of Justice, being detected in falsely obtaining Letters of Administration to one Joseph Clayton , a Mariner , knowing the same to be false and counterfeit, of which he was found guilty, and very deservedly received Sentence of Death accordingly.

'Twas a deep laid Scheme of Butler and his Associates to draw in a poor Woman to stand between them and the Halter; but it pleased Providence in this Case, that the Contrivers of this iniquitous Scheme should fall into the Trap, which his wicked Cunning had laid for another. Several poor Women have suffer'd for Forgeries, or publishing Forgeries, which very likely themselves were not at all aware of the Danger of being concerned in, being only induced to do what they did by the crafty Insinuations of some one or more of that abandon'd Set of Wretches, who seem determin'd, at all Events, to do all the Mischief they can to poor Sailors, who has earned his Money hard enough, and deserves better Usage at every Briton's Hands. And whenever any one of this Set of wicked Men, who make it their Business to defraud the brave, honest Tarr, who is by them used much worse than he deserves.

'Tis a great Instance of publick Justice when such Men are brought to suffer that Fate, which Butler has thus most rightly deserved, and been exposed to.

JOHN CARR , aged 31, was born in the North of Ireland , of a Family, as he says, of some Repute in that Part of the World, but of no great Fortune; had his Maintenance and Education agreeable to their Circumstances, till about the Age of 16, when he thought proper to launch out into the World, and accordingly did put his Resolution in Practice. He then, it seems, came to the Metropolis of that Kingdom, recommended by his Friends, and placed himself under the Protection of a distant Relation; where he lived for some Years in Ease and Tranquility, and in improving that Education he had received in Writing and Figures. He was bred to no particular Business, but at length he began to deal a little in Wines, and Brandys , &c. which Way, if he had continued in, 'tis thought might have brought him in that Country such considerable Profits, as would have continued to him a Life of Ease, and Satisfaction. But his Acquaintance with the extravagant and loose Part of Mankind grew too extensive, which being followed by the Death of his Friend, who was his Support, put an End for the present to the industrious Traffick, he had lately enter'd upon; and he began to give himself up to those Extravagancies which the Heat of Youth, and its Inexperience, but too often indulges.

To begin then with the chief Occurrence of his Life, I must inform the Reader, that one of the Party whom he most esteemed and kept Company with, was a young Rake of a very large Fortune, who liv'd in the remotest Part of the Kingdom, to which Place he invited Mr. Carr to spend some Part of the Summer Season, who agreeing to gowith him, they accordingly set out, and after travelling some Time, they arrived at Kilkenny , where they met with a Stage Coach in which were several Passengers, who stopp'd at the same Inn they proposed to put up at; among the Passengers in this Coach there was a most beautiful young Lady, dress'd in all the Elegance of Taste imaginable, who appeared by her Mien to be a Person of Quality. It greatly surprized Mr. Carr to see so many excellent Charms exposed and unattended; he immediately alighted from his Horse, already deeply smitten with her Charms, and offering her his Hand she accepted it, and handing her into the Inn could not bear a Separation, and therefore proposed that they might all sup together, which was agreed to; and while Supper was preparing, he endeavoured to learn from the Coachman, who she was, but to no Purpose; all the Information he could get was, that he took in the Lady at Dublin, and was going to the Spaw at Mallow, he found himself extremely uneasy in his Mind, this being the first Time that he was ever inspired with the Symptoms of Love.

Mr. Carr, in Order to procure more of her Company, endeavour'd to persuade them all to stay next Day to see the Beauty of the City, which he described in most exalted Terms, not forgetting to mention the Seat of the late Duke of Ormond, with the highest Encomiums, which raised their Expectations to such a Pitch, that they agreed to defer their Journey one Day, in order to satisfy their Curiosities, which heightened Mr. Carr's Spirits to a very extraordinary Degree, and made him, for the remaining Part of the Evening, very agreeable Company.

The Lady who by the Way was a Jilt, was not idle in the Part she was to act; she judg'd this young Man, by his Appearance, to be a Gentleman of extensive Fortune, and therefore, in order to fix him faster in her Snare, she endeavoured next Morning to outshine the Figure she made but Yesterday, and therefore entered the Room they were to breakfast in, dress'd in a most extraordinary Manner, and adorn'd with Jewels of a considerable Value, Mr. Carr stood motionless at her Entrance; she perceiv'd her Conquest, and was determined to give him the first Opportunity to declare his Mind, which happened in a Gallery at the Duke of Ormond's Palace, where they were viewing the Curiosities; they purposely strayed from the Rest of the Company, and when Carr found himself alone with her, he opened his whole Soul; she seemed to receive the Declarations of his violent Passion rather with Disdain than any Sign of being touch'd; however, she told him she was an English Lady of Distinction, and that his Person was not altogether displeasing to her, and if he was a Gentleman of Fortune and Family, as she supposed him to be, and could but obtain the Consent of her Friends, she did not doubt but in Time she might reconcile herself to give him her Hand and her Heart; telling him, she was than going to Mallow , to spend some Part of the Summer, where she should be glad to have his Company, and he accordingly went with her in spite of all the Entreaties of his Friend to thecontrary. Here he spent his Money and Time in a most riotous debauch'd Way of living, with this Lady, till he was obliged to apply to his Friend for a Reimbursement, who kindly assisted him not only with Cash but Advice too, which it would have been happy for Mr. Carr it he had followed; but instead of that, he and his Lady, who by this Time were as intimate as Man and Wife, pack'd up their Alls, and set out for Dublin , designing from thence to go for England. The Lady advised Mr. Carr to get every Thing in readiness for their Voyage, and particularly all the Cash he possibly could raise, in order that her Friends in England might see the Figure they could make. Mr. Carr had a large Sum of Money in the House, which he gave her the Keys off, and in order to raise more, sold some Houses left him by his deceased Relation, and taking up large Sums at an exorbitant Interest, he threw himself at her Feet, and told her she was sole Misterss of him and all he had in the World.

When Mr. Carr had raised all the Money he could procure, and made up an Equipage agreeable to her Orders, there was nothing more to be done than to procure a Ship; but she took an Opportunity, in his Absence, of making diligent Enquiry if there were any Ships bound for foreign Parts, and ready to sail. She was informed there was one just ready to sail for Amsterdam. She dress'd herself in a Suit of Man's Cloaths she had provided for the Purpose, and went to the Captain of this Vessel, and agreed with him, and sent all Mr. Carr's Luggage and her own Cloaths on Board that very Night; and the Wind offering fair, she prevailed on the Captain to sail with all Speed, giving him a Present for his Compliance; leaving the unfortunate Mr. Carr, destitute of Money, to seek new Adventures.

When Mr. Carr returned Home, and found that his Lady was gone, and every Thing valuable in his House carried away, what Transports of Rage and Fury he flew into, is almost impossible to describe; but when he came to the Return of his Reason, and knowing that a Search would be ineffectual, and serve rather to manifest his Folly than grant him any Relief; he therefore considered, before his Loss was made publick, it would be more congruous with his Interest to dispose of the Remainder of his Goods, and get as much Money as he could, and leave his native Country with all Expedition. The next Day he applied to a Broker, and received from him near an Hundred Pounds for his Goods, which he set off with directly, in the Packet-Boat, for Park-Gate .

About 12 or 13 Years ago, as far as we can find, Mr. Carr came to England , and was a great while in the Guards , and being discharged, enter'd for a Marine in the West of England . After he came to London, he was married to his first Wife, with whom he lived in Falconbridge-Court , Hog-Lane , St. Giles's , and sold Tea, and other smuggled Goods ; when the Wife's Mother and he having a Difference about what small Fortune she proposed to give her Daughter, and he finding it in vain to sue for it, thought it his best Way to sell his Stock in Trade and

Furniture, and leave his Wife to shift for herself. Accordingly he did so, and became acquainted with one -, who kept a House in Short's-Gardens, Drury-Lane. This Man sold Corks to the Country Inns, and he took Carr in for a Partner. But Carr being a Person of Address, got into Favour with the Partner's Customers, and so one Nail drove out the other. But Carr frequenting the Gaming-Table too much, soon spoil'd himself for a Corkseller , by Means of his bad Fortune.

Mr. Carr began now to be instructed in the Artifice of Mankind, he got acquainted with a Set of infamous Sharpers, who, under a Shew of Friendship, made him conversant with the alluring Temptations of Gaming, and other bad Practices, that rendered him a necessary Dupe to such Miscreants. He continued in London a considerable Time, spending his Money in every Extravagance the Invention of their ill-applied Wit could direct: He was perswaded by them to believe, he should soon marry a Woman with a large Fortune; nay, one was pitch'd upon, and necessary Go-betweens employ'd so effectually, and Carr's Merit so strongly recommended, that a Meeting was actually agreed on, when these false Friends sent Word to the Father of the young Lady, that a Scoundrel was going to run away with his Daughter, and betrayed every Motion that had been made; which occasion'd the Gentleman to take more Care of his Daughter, and all Mr. Carr's Endeavours were in vain ever to see her afterwards.

He was now become the Sport of these Reprobates and Sycophants, who like Vultures preyed upon him whilst his Money lasted, and when gone, despised and loath'd his Company. His Intrigues had drain'd him of all his Cash; it was now he began to see into his past Folly, and tho' he was bubbled and ensnar'd, yet he thought to shake off Idleness and Debauchery as soon as an Opportunity serv'd. But Carr being even at this Time somewhat acquainted with the Seamens Affairs, began to play his Tricks, and cheated a Friend of his, who intrusted him with a large Sum. His Friend had a Right to receive 60 l. and upwards at the Navy-Office, and sent him to receive it; but Carr thought proper to take it to his own Use; his Friend did not think proper to prosecute him, or he might have stood a bad Chance even at that Time. This went the same Way with the rest, was swallowed up in bad Luck at the Gaming-Table, and now all his Hopes were once more frustrated. He remained in Town a considerable Time, struggling with all the Calamities incident to Poverty and the Want of Money, and after pawning his intire wearing Apparel, which was his last Recourse, he then bethought himself of the only Expedient that could next offer most in his Favour, which was to enter again as a Marine on Board one of his Majesty's Ships, which he accordingly executed, leaving London not without bitter Remarks upon the Infidelity of his Undoers. He enlisted himself in the Service of the Navy, and rendered himself agreeable to the Ship's Company; his affable Behaviour soon distinguished himfrom the common Level, and in a short Time becoming so perfect a Master of his Exercise, he was preferr'd to the Quality of a Serjeant ; and had the Happiness to acquire the Esteem of all his Officers, and took so much Pains in correcting the Malignities of Disposition that reigned amongst his Fellow-Sodiers, that he was regarded more in Proportion than any of the inferior Officers; he was not long at Sea before they gave Chace to a large Ship, and coming up with her in four or five Hours, she made little or no Resistance, but soon struck, proving to be a Spanish Merchant-Man: She turn'd out to be a very rich Prize, laden with sundry Goods, which they safely conveyed in about 12 or 14 Days Time to Plymouth , where she lay at Anchor. During this short Engagement, he behaved with such becoming Courage as to receive the Satisfaction of being promised the first suitable Promotion. Flush'd with this Success, he thought to make a Reparation for his late Losses in London , and to acquire a Fortune even at the Hazard of his Life.

He was afterwards on Board a Ship stationed to cruise in the Chops of the Channel, where she was very fortunate in her Enterprizes, and took several private Ships of War, as well as Merchant-Men, belonging to Spain, which were condemned as lawful Prizes. He did not remain long on Board this Ship, being prepossess'd with a Notion that he might have a far better Chance on Board a Privateer.

He therefore left her at Plymouth , came to London , and enter'd himself in the Quality of Master at Arms . The Privateer being ready for the Sea, they left the River, and touch'd at the Downs, where they waited until they got their Orders in what Station to cruize, which was in Lat. 47 and 48 N. The Ship being stoutly mann'd, and the Crew in great Spirits, they left the Downs the latter End of April, 1744, and in two Days after they met with a French Privateer of 60 Guns, and 60 Men, which they carried into Poole . They lay too that Night, and the next Morning got their Men from on Board the Prize, and proceeded to Sea again. They had not left the Land above 4 Days but one of the Men at the Mast head spyed a Sail, which they gave Chace to, and in less than two Hours came up with her, and fired several Guns before she came too; it would be ineffectual for her to resist a Power so superior to her, and when they boarded her she proved a rich Prize from St. Domingo, and bound to Rochel. It is unnecessary to mention the Particulars of this Prize, it shall suffice, that they conveyed her safely to King Road , Bristol , where the Owners lived; here they refitted their Ship, and took in fresh Supplies of Beer and Water, and fail'd soon after for their former Station, and having a fine Gale down Bristol Channel, they met with nothing material untill they arrived at their cruizing Latitude, when they espying a Sail to Leeward, they crowded all their Sail to bear down upon her; she using all her Endeavours to escape but to no Purpose, the Pursuer being a prime Sailor; they brought her too in about an Hour, and she proved to be a Privateer; she only mounted

eight Guns and seventy Men, they took her in Tow that Night, and the next Morning at Break of Day they saw three Sail more, they cast off their former Prize, and chased the other; but the Wind growing calm they were obliged to rely on their Boats and Oars, and bringing the sternmost Ship too, the others followed the like Example; they proved to be Virginia Men, taken a few Days before by the French, and putting some of our Men on Board them, and the Wind springing up at N. W. they made Sail for the Land's End of England . The next Day they had the good Fortune to fall in with a large Ship of 30 Guns, to Windward of them, which struck without making the least Resistance. She came from Marseilles, and was bound to Brest. She had on Board Cochineal, and several other Goods; and in six Days brought them to an Anchor in Falmouth Harbour , to the great Joy of all the Crew.

They resuted their Ship with all possible Expedition, and in 12 Days reach'd their old Station, where espying another Sail at Break of Day coming before the Wind, they prepared for an Engagement; which was the sharpest he was ever engaged in, the Heat of Action lasting above 40 Minutes, whilst they fought Yard-arm and Yard-arm; but receiving very great Damage from their constant Fire, which lasted near four Hours, when she was glad to sheer off, being torn to Pieces, and most of her Men kill'd and wounded; the Rigging of Carr's Ship suffering prodigiously by her Shot, rendered her incapable of making a vigorous Pursuit, until they had bent fresh Sails to her Yards; when, after a long Chace, they came up with her about 10 o'Clock at Night, and obliged her to strike.

She was a Privateer belonging to St. Maloes, her Strength consisted of 20 Guns, and 300 Men; in this Engagement the English Ship had but four Men wounded in the Action, who behaved with the utmost Conduct and Bravery.

The Captain died soon after he came on Shore, and using Mr. Carr with the greatest Deference in his Life-time, he had likewise the Happiness of being kindly received by his Lady; and thinking it more adviseable to enter once more into Life, than run any more Risque at Sea, he thought an Opportunity now offered to advance his Fortune, and make him an adequate Return for all his past Sufferings; he therefore provided himself with some genteel Cloaths, and repeated his Visits to the Captain's Lady, who found so great an Alteration for the better in his Person, that she entertained a vast Affection for him, He carried on a formal Courtship with her, and made Use of all his Address to engage her in an Amour. The Bait he laid for her was so well concerted, that she could not easily avoid his Snares; he redoubled his Assiduities; but she was seized with a sudden Fit of Illness, of which she died, to his inexpressible Grief. He got by this Gentlewoman a small Fortune. He then came to London with his small Fortune, for a Beginning and entered into Trade; and tho' the Business he pursued (whichwas that of Smuggling) admitted of various and hazardous Dangers, yet the Profit arising therefrom was too great an Inducement to him not to continue it.

He followed this Branch a considerable Time, and thinking it absolutely necessary to get another Wife, he fell in Love with one Mrs. -, whom he espoused; and going into Partnership with two others, they met with Misfortunes in Trade; and tho' they had several Warehouses stock'd with Wines, and sundry other Goods, yet they had a Statute of Bankruptcy against them not long since.

He then had Recourse to such like Practices as have drawn upon him his present direful Calamities, and making it his Business to contract an Acquaintance with such People as he thought might be conducive to the carrying on his Schemes, and with an Intent to facilitate his Proceedings and Attempts upon the Weakness and Frailty of Mankind; (to wit) Sailors, who earn their Money with so much Labour and Fatigue, and who are made Properties of by such ill-designing People, who live and support their Extravagancies by the like indirect Means.

He undertook besides, his following his Trade of selling Wines, Brandy, &c. for which Purpose he kept a Warehouse in Blackmoor-Street , Clare-Market , and afterwards removed to Duke-Street , near Lincoln's-Inn-Fields , where he resided until he was taken up. I say, besides that Trade, he undertook the Business of an Agent for receiving Prize-Money, Letters of Attorney, and Powers, for Widows, &c. in which Kind of Business the had full Employment; by which Means he often became acquainted with the Names of People who died Abroad; to whom Wages was due; which was often received, to the Dettiment of poor Widows, or helpless Orphans. One Instance of his Villainy of this Kind is as follows: Messrs. K - and C -, Merchants of this City, had Orders to receive some Money for a Widow and four Children in Ireland, which was to be paid at Portsmouth by the Post-master; but the Money not being to be received without Letters of Administration, Carr somehow procured them, and received the Money, and converted it to his own Use; but it being some Time after discovered who had received it, he was closely pursued, and glad to hush up the Affair, and return the Money. It is confidently asserted that he has, within two Years past, received near 3000 l. upon sham Letters of Attorney, &c.

He was generally look'd upon to be a sober Man, in Regard to Drink, keeping his Head cool for any bad Purpose he had a Mind to pursue. It is said, he was tried for a Misdeameanor at the Sessions-House, in the Old-Bailey , about 7 Years since, but acquitted: he was concerned in bailing some of the Persons in Mr. W - 's Affair, and was very forward in giving Characters of Persons tried at the Old-Bailey, where he was every Sessions a constant Attendant. The Report of his robbing on the Highway is false.

But Justice at length stopp'd his Career, being detected in uttering a false and counterfeit Letter of Attorney, forwhich he was indicted and tried, on the Oaths of John Sidding , and Edmund Mason , and others; and after a Trial of near nine Hours, and the strongest Corroborations he was found guilty, and received his deserved Sentence of Death.

N. B.'Tis a Doubt, whether his Name was John Carr , or John Kernon ; 'tis generally believed, Kernon was his real Name, famous and well known in the Kingdom of Ireland .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Monday the 25th Instant, about 9 o'Clock in the Morning, Henry Grover , Richard Butler , and John Atkins , in one Cart, Joseph Boroughs and John Carr in another, went to the Place of Execution; where, after having joined a short Space in Prayer for Forgiveness and Acceptance with God, thro' the Merits of Christ, and recommending their departing Souls to Mercy, they were turned off the Cart, neither of them having said any Thing particular, but all seemingly composed and resigned.

Butler and Carr died in the Roman Catholick Perswasion, the latter having the most extraordinary Struggles and Convulsions that ever I beheld in any of these unhappy Wretches, which seem'd to arise from his being so very slender and light-built a Person. There were two Hearses to receive the Bodies of Boroughs and Carr; the rest were taken Care of by their Friends in Carts.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

To be LETT, or SOLD, At East-End, Finchley, in the County of Middlesex,

A Handsome House, four Rooms on a Floor, with a large Garden, an Orchard, Barn, Stable, and a Brew-house, with the Water laid in; for further Particulars enquire of Mr. Patteshall, Tallow-Chandler, in Honey-Lane-Market, or of Thomas Parker , Printer , in Jewin-Street , near Cripplegate , London .

