THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 8th of this Instant March, 1731.

BEING THE Second EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq;

Number II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXI.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq; Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Rt. Hon. the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds; the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Raby, and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery for the City of London, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at JusticeHall in the Old-Bailey, on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, being the 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, and 19th of January, 1731, in the Fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Two Men, viz. William Maynee , and Alexander Russel , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and receiv'd Sentence of Death. As also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Humphrey Parsons , Esq; Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Hon. Mr. Justice Lee; the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London, and others of his Majesty's Justices, &c.) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 24th and 25th of February, 1731, in the Fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Four Men, viz. George Wych , Thomas Andrews , William Williams and John Chappel , were found Guilty of capital Crimes by the Jury, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, I shew'd them, that the Reason why so many Men, and particularly such undeserving Wretches as they were, forsake God and know none of his Ways, is, their not being in Love with, nor acquainted with the Cross of Christ, whose Yoke is easy, and whose Burthen is light; whose ways are ways of Pleasantness, and all his Paths are Peace, Prov. 3. 17. They who are Carnal and Selfish, and Earthly-minded, devote themselves wholly to a present evil World, wherein there is nothing but the Lust of the Flesh, as St. John says, 1 John 2. 16. Hence it is, that some Men mind nothing but to wallow Amenidst a great Plenty of sensual Pleasures, where they abound. Others again divesting themselves of the Fear of God and due Regard to Man, and unwilling to follow some lawful Employment, for acquiring Food and Raiment in a reasonable and Christian way, to which we have a Promise of Success annexed, as says the wise Solomon, The Hand of the Diligent shall bear Rule: but the Slothful shall be under Tribute. Pro. 12. 24. And again, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack Hand: but the Hand of the Diligent maketh rich. Pro. 10. 4. Those careless, idle People, unwilling to work, deserve not to eat, and therefore God forsakes and gives them up to their own Hearts Lusts; whence it is, that they run headlong into all manner of Excess of Riot, and in order to feed their Lusts, falling into pernicious and wicked Courses, in Defiance of all Laws Divine and Human, they hurry themselves into speedy Destruction, and as a due Reward of their Villainies, many of them undergo an untimely, ignominious Death, reflecting Disgrace upon themselves and the Families of which they are descended.

I exhorted them to improve the few remaining Moments of Time, indulg'd them by the Lenity of their lawful Superiors, in fearing and loving God, and in contemplating his infinite Excellencies and Perfection, particularly his darling Attribute of Goodness, and Mercy, in taking Compassion upon those who are truly Penitent and forsake all their Sins. I advis'd them to cry incessantly unto God, that he who made them might have Mercy upon them, not upon their own Account, but only for the Sake of Christ, who died for them, and who now lives and interceeds for our Sins; and that he would be pleas'd to give unto them his holy Spirit to lead them into all Truth, who

might possess them, with Faith, Repentance, Love, and new Obedience, and all other Saving Graces, that by those Means they might be disposed for Glory.

From 2 Sam 12. 7. And Nathan said unto David, Thou art the Man. I took occasion (upon Account of Chappel the Murderer) to expose that horrid Sin of Murder, as being a Breach of the express Law of God, Thou shalt not Kill, Exod. 20. 13. or as it is other ways render'd, Thou shalt do no Murder; as an unnatural and barbarous Sin, since thereby Men shake off that Principle of Humanity and Kindness, with which we come into the World, and put on the Nature of fierce and savage Animals, which are made for Destruction; and as being the greatest Sin we can be guilty of, against our Neighbour or Brother, with Respect and in Breach of those relative Duties we owe to him. In all other Offences, some Restitution may be made, if not to make up the Loss sustained, yet by other Offices to the Persons whom we have injur'd, such as praying for them, begging their Pardon, and doing them what Services lie in our Power; but no Manner of Reparation can be given to him, who is robb'd of his precious Life: So that were there not some Instances of God's pardoning even this heinous Sin, (which usurps upon the Perogative of God Almighty, who is the only Sovereign Lord, of the Life and Death of his Creatures) as in the Case of Manasseth, the wicked King of Judah, and Others, we might be induced to think this Sin unpardonable. But the Offers of the Gospel being unlimited, and the Mercies of God infinite, I exhorted them all to throw themselves upon the Mercy of God in Christ, who is able and willing to Save unto the uttermost, all them who come unto God through Him.

Having instructed them in the Design of the Sacraments, all of them receiv'd the Lord's-Supper with apparent Devotion.

While these, and many other Exhortations were given, they attended in Chappel, and all of them made regular Responses. Most of the few Days, the last convicted Criminals were under Sentence, William Williams was confined to his Couch in the Cell, by Reason of a violent Sickness and Indisposition: When I visited him, he behav'd with Modesty and Submission, and was very Devout and Attentive, when I pray'd and exhorted him. Although scarce able to Walk, and miserably Poor and Naked, he came sometimes to Chappel, and was very careful in his Devotions with the rest. Mr. Maynee was always very punctual in his Devotions, religious Duties, and Penitentials, both in Private and Publick. Mr. Wych constantly attended and complied with the publick Devotions, but not with such apparent Seriousness as some of the rest, and he misbehaved once or twice in Chappel. Thomas Andrews , alias Anderson , was very observant in his Devotions, and Grave. Alexander Russel , was always Grave, Serious, and Devout, and gave constant Attendance to the pub

lick Worship. John Chappel the Murderer, always attended some Weeks before, and also after his Trial, and seem'd Devout and Penitent, and to have strong Remorses, in Testimony whereof, he often wept bitterly.

Upon Friday, the 5th, of this Instant March, the Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of these six Malefactors under Sentence of Death in Newgate : When, Alexander Russel , of St. Margarets Westminster , for assaulting Anne Roberts , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Riding-hood, value 3 s. the 25th, of December last, received his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve. The other Five, viz. William Maynee , Thomas Andrews , alias Anderson , William Williams , George Wych , and John Chappel , were ordered for Execution.

John Chappel , of St. Leonard Shore-ditch , was Indicted for Murder of Sarah Martin ; to which Indictment he pleaded Guilty, desiring the favour of the Court that he might not be Hang'd in Chains. Before Sentence was pass'd, being ask'd by the Court, what he had to say why Judgment should not be pass'd upon him according to Law? He made no Reply, but after it had been pass'd, he said, The Lord have mercy upon my Soul.

John Chappel , 41 Years of Age, Born in London of honest but mean Parents, was Educated at School to Read, Write and cast Accompts, to fit him for Business; and he was instructed in Religious Principles, of which in the Event he made a very sorry Improvement. When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Barber and Wig-maker , and serv'd out his Time faithfully. Afterwards having serv'd for some time as a Journeyman , he set out to the World, followed his own Employment and married a Wife, by whom he had some Children who are all Dead. In his Married-State, being originally Poor, he had but indifferent Success in Business and lived Meanly; besides the Loss of his Children, who prov'd a Charge upon him, his Wife turn'd Valetudinary, and lay Sick upon his Hand for several Years before she Died. This Misfortune put him to extravagant Expences, brought all his Affairs into Confusion and sunk him with small Debts, which he was not well capable to Discharge. At last, after a tedious Indisposition, his Wife Died, about three Years ago. It having been given out, that he was so weary of his Wife, that to get rid of her, he Poison'd her. I ask'd, if it was true that he Poison'd his Wife? He answer'd, that the World was very injurious in casting such an Aspersion upon him; and that he was most careful of his Wife, during all the time of her Illness, let her want for nothing, got a Nurse for her when she wanted one, and had three Physicians of the City, who visited and prescrib'd every thing which they judg'd most proper for her; And that at last when nothing avail'd for her Recovery, she died a peaceable and fair Death. They likewise alledg'd, that when at a Time he was Drunk, he forc'd a near Relation of his own to lie with him against her will: This (he said) was a scandalous

Lie and that such a villainous Intention never enter'd into his Mind. A third Crime they talk'd of, that he should have Ravish'd a young Girl of 6 or 7 Years old; and afterwards threw her into a Bog-house. But this he said was the same Edition with the rest, and not a Word of it true, and he added, that it was an uncharitable Way to aggravate the Misfortunes of a Man, and because he's guilty of one Crime to suppose him guilty of twenty others. He said, he never was excessively Wicked, that he seldom drank much, neither did he Swear but sometimes when he was in Passion (to which he was too liable) or provok'd, and that he never committed a capital Crime, but this for which he Died, having liv'd honestly, and endeavour'd to do Justice to every Body.

As for the black, notorious, cruel, and barbarous Murder of Sarah Martin , he confess'd the same before the Justice, when he was first taken up for it, and afterwards he own'd it to every Body, and told it in the most aggravating Circumstances.

When he was a Widower, and had but little Business, being somewhat straiten'd in his Circumstances, he was taken in to be a Porter of the Work-House in Bishopsgate Street , where he behav'd himself, to the Satisfaction of his Superiors, attended his Business, and was Respected, by the other Officers and Servants of the said Work-House: He was put into this Place not fully two Years ago, and liv'd in it comfortably and easily, being a single Person, but it was his great Misfortune, to fall into the Acquaintance of a poor Widow Woman, nam'd Sarah Martin , a Washer of Linnens, in that Neighbourhood, with whom he contracted an intimate Familiarity, went frequently to her House, and committed Uncleanness with her, for a considerable Space of Time. She said that she was with Child, and always press'd hard upon him to Marry her, and having been of a litigious vexatious Temper, and inclining to Drink; she followed after him, curs'd, swore, and teaz'd him, at such a prodigious Rate, that he was kept in perpetual Uneasiness: He did not incline to Marry her upon two Accounts, because (as he said) the Officers of the Work-House, are required to be single Persons, so that marrying, unless he could keep it Private, might loose his Place; and because she lov'd Drink too well, and was of an unaccountable, base, and most wicked Temper. Upon this Account (as he said) he form'd a Resolution to desert her Company, but could by no Means get rid of her, for she perpetually came after him, scolded, curs'd, and threaten'd in Order to compel him to marry her, as being with-Child by him, and that if he would not do it, she would use her utmost Endeavours, to expose and ruin him, in his Business. This (he affirm'd) was the Occasion of the D-l's entering into him, and his conceiving the Design of murdering the poor Woman, which wicked Intention, no doubt, the Prince of Darkness forwarded, and would not suffer to lie Dormant, but added Fewel

to the Flame. He did not go to her, for two or three Weeks, but she still came after him and teaz'd him, so that at last he was forced to make an Appointment, to go out and walk with her in an Evening: They went towards Hoxton, where they call'd at the Hare , she ask'd for a Pint of Two-penny, which was brought her, Chappel was of a peevish and surly Temper, to her that Evening, and did not incline to Drink, nor bear her Company, but stood at a Distance, pretending to speak with Some-body; she displeas'd to sit by herself, call'd out aloud, Mr. Chappel, wont you Drink? Although contrary to his Inclination yet fearing that, according as she us'd to do, she should make a Disturbance, before Strangers, he sate down and drank with her, and pay'd for the Pint of Ale: Then they went out, and Sarah Martin , proposs'd to go towards Sir George Whitmore's to one of her Acquaintance; Chappel was averse to this, and desir'd her to Return to Town, and leave him, for he was fully resolv'd, never to bear her Company. Upon this they wavered up and down, for a while, and were uncertain, what Course to take, he was unwilling to go to her Friend's House, and she to Return to Town so soon, thus they being uncertain what to do, the D-l prompted him to his mischievous Intent, and she still insisting upon the old Theam of Marriage, (and as he said) cursing and threatening him in a fearful Manner, they being in a Field by an old ruinous Ale-house near Sir George Whitmore's, and Sarah Martin walking a little before him, Chappel with an oaken-stick he had in his Hand knock'd her down unawares, and continuing to beat her, in a mad, furious, and barbarous Manner, she endeavour'd (though to no Purpose) to make some Defence and rise up, and then said, O! John, John, have Mercy; O! John, John, have Mercy, save my Life: But he possest with the D-l, and resolv'd to make an End of her, redoubl'd his Strokes, with hellish Violence, and then in great Hurry, he took out both his Knives, one was a Penknife, as he us'd to mend his Pens with, and the other was an Oyster-Knife, and having wounded her in diverse Places, he left one of the Knives sticking in her Scull: When she was quite Dead, he left her, and the other Knife, with the Oaken Stick, and all his murdering Weapons lying by her, and went streight to Town to the Work-House. This Murder, as he confess'd, was premeditated sometime before he did it. He was in such a violent Passion and Confusion, that he said, he could not well tell after what manner he committed the Murder; and it's certain, that (as he himself owned) he gave her no time to make any Defence for her Life, but attacked her so suddenly, and with such Fury, that she had scarce time to say, Lord have Mercy on my Soul. The Stick he knock'd her down with he did not take out for that purpose, but was what he used for three or four Months last past, when he us'd to take a Walk, and had no such wicked Design in his

I ask'd him, what Temptations they were which he said he was constantly troubl'd with, while under Sentence? He answer'd, they were only impertinent or sinful Thoughts came into his Mind, diverting him when he was about Religious Duties, which then were the main of his Employment. He never whored nor drank much, nor swore much, though he was altogether free from none of those Vices. The Day before he Died, a Gentleman went to see him, he entertain'd him with a long harangue about very trifling things, and likewise took him by the Hand, and said to him, a Monday Sir, is the happy Day, which he meant the Day of his Execution. He always made a great Profession of Penitence, wept much, said he did not desire to live, and though they would open the Prison Doors, he did not desire to go out of it, for he could never enjoy one Moments Peace of Mind. An eminent Instance of God's Revenge against Murder! He declar'd, that he believ'd to be Sav'd through the Merits of Christ's Blood, which speaketh better Things, than that of Abel, that he repented of all his Sins, particularly the dreadful Murder he died for, and that he was in Peace with all the World.

The following Account, written by his own Hand, was given by John Chappel , the Night before his Execution, to the Printer of this Paper.

THE great Reflections of the World hath made me somewhat Uneasy, but more especially my antient Mother, who must bear the Reproach of the World without the least Occasion whatsoever, being charg'd with being Drunk, and with my lying with her every Night, which I do solemnly declare, as I am a dying Man is utterly false and groundless, for I don't remember that I ever knew my Mother to be drunk in the whole Course of my Life, but as I have heard her say, she was once in Liquor when I was an Infant; and as to the other it is against Nature and Reason, for she was always a very sober, honest, virtuous Woman; and if I had taken her Counsel this Misfortune had never befallen me, for she always gave me the best of Advice; and did not know any thing of my keeping Company with this Woman, whom I have unfortunately murthered, for if she had, it had never been done.

In the second Place, I have been charged with the poysoning of my Wife, which is utterly false, for in her Illness I did all that lay in my Power to relieve her, but to no Purpose; then I sent for Dr. Cartridge, in or near Wood street, who came to my Wife and prescrib'd for her, but said, if she did not go into the Country, she would not live six Weeks longer. I gave him his Fee, and my Wife took what he ordered, and then I sent her down to Rumford to an own Brother of hers, where she was some Time, and then went to Havouring Bower , which during the Time she was in the Country she made use of Mr. George Aylett , Apothecary, who through the

Mercy of God and his Medicines got pretty well again. I was several Times down to see her, and when I found she was so well recovered I desired her to come home, which she did in about ten Days Time, and bro't some Medicines with her; but her Distemper return'd in a little Time and my Money being gone I was forc'd to leave my Shop, so went to Mr. Podmore at Stratford , and paid him a Quarter's Rent that I ow'd him, and then came away; then I apply'd myself to John London , Esq; in Lothbury , where I served my Apprentiship to a Perukemaker and Barber , and he gave me a Letter to the Steward of Mr. Guy's Hospital, where my Wife was immediately examined before Dr. Jury and Dr. Oldfield, who ordered her into Liddia's Ward, then I went to work at Mr. Smith's at Great Illford , and came to my Wife once a Week and paid the Sister of the Ward Two Shillings or Half a Crown a Week, and sometimes more.

And this I did till the Day of her Death, and then Buried her very handsome and decent in St. Thomas's Church yard , which Funeral cost me about five Pound: I never abus'd or struck her in all my Life, no other-ways than Words may happen between Husband and Wife, but never no Blows.

I have been charg'd by some ill-dispos'd Persons, who says, that I should Kill a Child in the London Workhouse , which is maliciously laid upon me, as well as the other two Stories, concerning my Mother and my Wife, and is without any Sense and Reason, for no such thing should be done without my being brought to Justice; but what is it the World won't say when a Man is under Afflictions? I do not mind the Aspersions of the World as to my own Part, but this I do to right those who are any way Injured; which might be a great Prejudice to the London Work-house, if such a thing was believed; by hindering those Good and Pious Christians to leave Legacies to the said House; which I hope those Persons won't take any Notice of the Rumour and Clamour of the Publick, which is entirely False and Groundless as I am a Dying Man, and hope for Salvation through the Merits of my Dear Saviour, Jesus Christ.

The following PRAYER, JOHN CHAPPEL made use of in his CELL, while he was under SENTENCE.

" EXAMINE me, O Lord, and " Prove me, Try my Reins and my " Heart, Search me, O God, and " Know my Heart. Try me, and Know " my Thoughts, and see if there be any " wicked Way in me, and Lead me in " the Way everlasting.

" Good Lord have Mercy on me, for " Christ Jesus sake; for there is no " other Name given under Heaven, by " which we can be saved. I desire to be " saved by Thee, in whom is my Trust " and sure Confidence, in thy Mercy, " Repenting and Believing, and to be " Remembered by our Lord Jesus in this " Kingdom, and that my Death may be " Sweet and Comfortable to me, that " when I come to Die, I may Receive the

" Comforts of a joyful Resurrection, and " may hear that precious Voice from " Heaven: Be of good Comfort, God " calleth thee, thy Sins are Forgiven " thee; I am thy Salvation. Which " God of his infinite Goodness and Mercy Grant, for Jesus Christ's sake. " Amen.

William Maynee , of St. Mildred in the Poultry , was indicted for unlawfully, willfully, and feloniously erasing an Indorsement for the Sum of 15 l. upon a Bank Note for the Payment of 50 l. to Mr. Henry South , or Bearer, on Demand; and for erasing an Indorsement for 30 l to Mr. Henry Cole , or Bearer, on Demand; contrary to the Form of the Statute, &c. To which Indictments the Prisoner pleaded Guilty.

William Maynee , 48 Years of Age, born in the City of Canterbury of honest respected Parents, had to his Godfather a great and worthy Divine, whose Footsteps if he had trac'd, he had never fallen into the Misfortunes of his Life. His Father died and left him very young, when he was committed to the Care of an Uncle, then a worthy Clergyman in Hertfordshire , and other Friends, who took special Care of his Education. In his tender Years his Uncle kept him in the Country, but after his Death his Friends carried him to Kent ; in both which Counties he was kept at as good Schools as any in the Kingdom, and made good Proficiency in Latin, Greek, Casting Accompts and Writing, to fit him for any kind of Business; and he was also very well-ground and instructed in Principles of Religion. When of Age he came to London , and was bound Apprentice to a Wholesale Grocer in Watling-street , and serv'd his Time honestly and with Approbation of his Master. Afterwards he traded by himself, and about this Time an Uncle dying in Jamaica without Children, he went thither by Commission from his Mother, and recover'd to the Value of 1500l. which he sent home to her at London, and made 5 or 600 l. to himself, besides the Recovery of a Debt of 600 l. which he brought home and deliver'd to his Master, having had a Power from him to that Purpose; and having done all this Business, he return'd home with the same Ship in which he went out. He then set up in Bishopsgate street , married a Wife with a good Fortune, and was in a very good way of doing well; but after he was married several Years, and had some Children, certain fatal Differences happen'd betwixt him and his Wife. She was Inexorable, and would by no Means (as he said) be Reconcil'd; upon this they made a voluntary Separation, and sign'd mutual Letters of absenting from one another; but the Wife insisting upon his full filling of some matrimonial-Contract, he sold a House or two and paid her some Sum of Money, and gave a Paper under his Hand, that he should never seek after, nor have any thing more to do with her directly nor indirectly. He left the Town and went to Norfolk , intending to lead a Country Life: There he liv'd for some Time privately, and

at last drawing up with a Widow Gentlewoman, of a good Fortune, he married her; but her Estate not answering all Demands, while he was in an unactive Life, he then remov'd to a little Country Estate of his own, which he farm'd for three Years, but not acquainted with this Sort of Business, and having sunk so much of his own Money every Year, he resolv'd to throw up the Farm, and once more to try his Fortune at London . But his Wife could by no Means be perswaded to follow him thither, because of some evil Reports she had received of him. He settl'd her in a Milliners Shop in some Town in Essex , where she had good Business, and kept her two Sons without troubling of him, although he afterwards he took them from her and put them to Boarding-Schools, and the eldest to a Trade, and made such heavy Demands upon the Wife, that she was forc'd to throw up her Business, to her great Loss and Ruin. He return'd to Town, and being a good Writer and dextrous Accomptant, had Interest to induce the Honourable Company of the Bank of England, to chuse him in for one of their under Clerks . This was some more than eight Years ago. W-n and his Wife advis'd Mr. Maynee not to let slip such a good Opportunity of acquiring Money, where such Heaps were a going, and which might free both of them from divers Incumbrances: Mr. Maynee by this Time plung'd in Debts and Difficulties, was not averse to this Proposal, and defrauded the Bank of more than 2000 l. gratifying W-n, who went to the Bank and receiv'd the Money for him, at different Times, with above Eight Hundred Pounds, and reserving the rest to supply his own Necessities. This Practice he began in the Year 1724. W - n was so urgent in his Demands, being a necessitous, spending Fellow, that when he came so often, still seeking more Money, at one Time he was in a Passion at him, and swore a solemn Oath that he would never give him a Farthing more, altho' afterward, for fear of a Discovery upon W - n's threatning him, he did give him more. About this Time also he married a third Wife, an honest, grave Widow Woman in Town, for a Bed-fellow he could not want, who he said was a virtuous Woman and a sober good House-Wife.

After he was under Sentence, all his Houshold Goods and Furniture were carried off, he knew not whether nor well by whom, only suspected some Body, and this may verify the old Proverb, beati possessories. He resolv'd now no more to trust W - n or any Person, but to carry on his Frauds by himself, which he did, and accordingly, as by a List of Notes drawn up by an eminent Person of the Bank, and shown him by a Gentleman who visited him, and which he acknowledg'd to be just and right to a Nicety: They were Bank Receipts made out in the Name of one R - t S - rs, within 9 Months before he was taken up, viz. May 4, 1730. on J - s for 500l. May 9, on W - s for 1020 l. August 13, on W - s for 100 l. Ditto, on W - n for 20 l. September 5, on

Mr. W – T - r for 200 l. Ditto die on W - n for 20 l. December 9, on W - m T - r for 400 l. on him Ditto die, for 120 l. Sum of all is, 2380 l. These several Frauds he carried on against the Bank since the 4th, of May last. All the Money he cheated the Bank of since the Year 1724, he often told me, amounted to 4420 l. Sterling. You will find subjoyn'd to this a Letter directed to me, written and sign'd by himself, giving a particular account of the manner of his Apprehension and Confession, before the Deputy Governor of the Bank: which is as follows.

To the Revd. Mr. James Guthrie , Ordinary of Newgate.

Newgate, March 6, 1731.

Reverend Sir,

I Thought it would be expected I should give some Account of myself, and the Crime for which I suffer, and I am willing so to do. I am descended from a good Family, and was well educated, am about 48 Years of Age, and have for upwards of 8 Years past been a Servant at the Bank , but being greatly in Debt, when I came into that Service, and not having the due Regard I ought to have had to Gods Holy Commandments, and being press'd by my Creditors, I contrived Ways, to defraud the Bank, and thereby procured Money to my Creditors, and on Saturday the 2d of January I was suspected, and stop at the Bank, and by the Deputy-Governor sent that Night, on Suspicion, to the Comptr, and on Monday hearing that several of my Friends were taken up upon Suspicion, who were innocent Persons, and I being desirous to clear them, did send Word by a Friend to the Deputy-Governor, that if I might be admitted to the Mercy of Transporting myself to the Island of Jamaica to end my Days there, I would make a full Confession and Discovery of the whole Fraud, and impeach a Person Criminally concern'd with me, my Friend brought me Word, the Deputy Governor's Answer was, that if I was the first that impeach'd, it might be the better for me, but that he was but One amongst several Others, and therefore could make me no absolute Promise; upon which my Friend advising me to make the free Confession I had offer'd, and the Deputy-Governor sending for me by the Keeper the same Evening, I was brought before him at the Bank, and making the same Request to him myself, as my Friend had done; I receiv'd the like Answer, which, both my Friend and myself, unhappily understanding as a Promise of Recommendation to the Court of Directors, for the Mercy of Transportation; and I believing that the Deputy-Governor would not accept my Confession and Impeachment, without having an Intention of procuring me the Mercy I implor'd for, and I being very desirous to clear the innocent Persons that were confin'd on Suspicion, I did thereupon impeach a Person that was guilty, and made a full Dis

covery of the whole Fraud, and sign'd my Confession, and making Oath against the Person I had impeach'd, he was the next Day taken and committed to Newgate, (but I hear is since discharg'd). The first Note I was indicted upon, was a Bank Note of 50 l. with which, and about 57 l. more in Money I had procured to be bought a South Sea Bond, which Bond I returned to the Bank the Day after I had made my Confession; and I also return'd with it another Bank Note of 50 l. which had had two Indorsements taken off from it, and which was all that I had, and upon which the second Indictment was founded; thus having fully confess'd my Crime, and throwing myself intirely upon the Mercy of the Honourable Court of Directors, for Transportation, I pleaded Guilty to both the Indictments. I acknowledge my Crime, and I humbly beg Pardon of that Honourable Court for the great Offence I have given, heartily praying for the Prosperity of the Bank of England, and that no Person may every attempt again to defraud them, in the like Manner as I did, or otherwise. And I hope all Persons in Places of Trust, will take Warning by my sad Calamity, and not by disregarding Gods Holy Commandments, give themselves the Liberty of breaking those Trusts, if any Opportunity offers to them. Sir, I heartily forgive all Persons who have any ways injured me, and I beg Pardon of all I have any ways offended, and I die in perfect Charity with all Persons whatsoever.

I am, Sir, your humble Servt.

The poor dying Criminal,

William Maynee

William Maynee was a Man well Educated, and knowing in religious Principles and other things, but he was addicted to the Love of Women and the Lusts of the Flesh, that he run into great Debts and inextricable Difficulties, which, prompted on by his covetous Temper and a Desire of being Rich by whatever Means, occasion'd his falling upon those unlawful and criminal Expedients, which prov'd his Ruin and were the cause of his disgraceful Death. Another worthy Divine who came to visit and pray for, and gave him many good Advices, often and earnestly urg'd an absolute restitution of stolen Goods, which he offered to do upon condition he might Live and be allow'd to transport himself to Jamaica : When all hopes of this Kind vanish'd, and the Dead Warrant came down to Newgate against him, I still insisted, as I had done formerly, upon Restitution as a necessary Ingredient of Repentance. He said he had made an uncondition'd Offer of Restitution, and show'd upon a small Bit of Paper a List of Debts, as he affirm'd, good and sufficient, to the Value of about 900 l. and this was all he had left in his Power to do. But No-body seeking after it he kept all to himself. He read some Papers to

me containing very good Prayers of his own Composure, for his private Use while under Sentence; and a pretty large Account of his Life, the Sum of which was his Confessing to God, that his Leachery and Covetousness had undone him, and that he made firm Resolutions of Deserting these Vices, and living a circumspect Christian Life, if it should please Providence to spare his Life. He was an industrious, sober Man, for he never was Drunk in his Life, having never used any Thing to quench his Thirst, but clean Spring-well Water, or a Dish of Tea, Chocolate or Coffee, and seem'd to be very well fitted for Business. He lamented his Sinning so much against Light and Knowledge, and neglecting for some Years past to take the Blessed Sacrament, because of the Conscience he had of his Guilt and Crimes, and his lying in habitual Sins, and sometimes his not going to Church, for he told that upon Holy Days, when other Gentlemen were better employ'd, to make a Show of Diligence, he went into the Bank house, and eras'd and order'd about his Notes and Books privately by himself, as he thought fit He made a deep Profession of Repentance, and sometimes in the Agony and Bitterness of his Soul; he shed Tears and Wept, and with a deal of Submission and Resignation he suffer'd his deserved Punishment. He declar'd his Faith in the Merits of Christ Jesus, that he was truly Penitent for all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

George Wych , Thomas Andrews , alias Anderson , and William Williams , of St. George, Hanover-Square , were indicted for assaulting James Webb , in a certain Field or open Place, near the Highway, putting him in Fear of his Life, and taking from him a Silver Watch and Chain, a Hat, and 15 s. in Money, and a Dutch Shilling, and five Keys, the 16th of January last.

They were likewise try'd upon three other Indictments, and found guilty.

George Wych , near 18 Years of Age, of too good Parents for such an unworthy graceless Son. His Father resides in foreign Places, whether he went when his Son George was young, whom he left to the Care of his Mother and other Relations. George was educated at Westminster School , and made good Advancement in his Studies, but of late, as he was turning to Mans Estate, he became a most obdurate and cross Boy, Disobedient to his Mother, of whom he got the upper Hand, Negligent of his Relations and all good and wholsom Counsels. In a Word, he feared not God and regarded not Man. Although he had Abundance of Learning for one of his Age, and understood the Principles of Christianity, yet he had wholly neglected religious Duties, both Publick and Private, for some Time, gave himself up to a reprobate Sense, left the School, and joyn'd himself to the Society of Whores, Thieves and such abandon'd Wretches, and shunn'd the Company of his Relations and others who might be proper for his Acquaintance. He

had an itching after Game, and came often home naked, having gam'd away all his Clothes, which put his Mother to the Charge of new Ones, beside the great Vexation and Trouble, which was like to kill her. In Christmas Holydays, his Mother going to visit some Friends, he went along with her, but as he was going he run from her, and said he would meet her at home, or at their Friends House immediately. But after that his Mother saw him no more; for he went to meet his wicked Associates, and never appear'd 'till such Time as he was taken up for his Crimes, and brought before his proper Judges. His Friends blam'd Andrews, his Companion, for his Misfortunes, which he himself did not, but said they were all equally guilty and willing to go out, upon their dangerous and desperates Exploits. He own'd himself to have been a great Sinner, in Whoring, Drinking, Cursing and Blaspheming, and keeping of bad Company, particularly of an infamous Woman, with whom he convers'd and liv'd for the most part, after he left his poor afflicted Mother. He had some Thoughts of a Reprieve, but when all Hopes fail'd, he shed some Tears out of Fear, appearing before to have been too obdur'd and unconcern'd. He desired nothing of me but that I should not speak of, nor mention his Family, which I knew nothing of, and said he had no further Confessions. He hop'd to be sav'd through the Merits of Christ Jesus, he repented and was grieved for his Sins, and was in Peace with all Men.

Tho. Andrews , alias Anderson , Aged 19 Born in Worcestershire of Mean Parents. His Father having been a Labouring Man, came to London in quest of Business, where he soon Died, and left his Son very Young upon the care of his Mother who serves in Taverns. The poor Woman was very kind and tender of the Son, put him to School, and got him taught to Read, Write, and Cypher, to fit him for Business, and instructed him in religious Principles. When of Age, he did not go to any Trade, but serv'd and was a Porter in Taverns . He seem'd to be a well-disposed young Fellow, but was totally ruin'd by keeping Company with lew'd Women, and a set of vile Thieves who brought him to the Gallows. He own'd that he had been a proffligate young Fellow, in Whoring, Drinking, Swearing, Gameing, &c. Both Wych and he said they had only been engage in Highway Robberies, about a Months time at most, and that they had committed no more than what they were convicted for, and that the Evidence against them was all true, unless there might be a little variation in some small Circumstances: Wych denied not but that he fir'd a Pistol and frighten'd some of them whom he Robb'd, and both of them own'd that they had and used Pocket Pistols in their villainous Exploits, but said that none of them drew a Knife, or any sharp Weapon to threaten any Body on the High-way, as some of the Evidences testify against them. Both of them said they were equally Guilty, and that none of them

could be blam'd more than another, they having all voluntarily engag'd in such wicked Purposes. He declar'd himself a true Penitent, believ'd in his Saviour, and died in Peace with all Men.

William Williams , about 30 Years of Age, Born in Yorkshire (as he said) of honest Parents, who Educated him the best Way they could, to read, write, and cast Accompts; and Instructed him in Christian Principles, necessary to be known, he was not of any Trade, but follow'd the Business of a Chapman , and serv'd a Gentleman traveling the Country for him, and felling his Goods at Bath , and several other Towns and Places in the West Country . He said his Wife and he had been much Afflicted with Sickness, for a Year past, which brought them into great Poverty, and this was the only Spring and Cause of his Misfortunes; for otherwise he was in good Business for one of his Station, and needed not want to maintain both himself and his Family, for he had the Love of his Master, and other Acquaintances. He said further, that he never stole, thieved, nor robb'd in his Life, saving the Fact of which he stood Convicted, and one or two more, and all of them in Company with his fellow Sufferers, the Evidence and Seabrook not taken; who meeting with him the Friday night, communicated their pernicious Designs, and threaten'd to shoot him Dead, confirming their Threats with horrible Oaths and Imprecations, if he would not joyn them as a Companion, in their outragious Villainies: Accordingly the next Night he went along and gain'd the Halter without more ado. He was very serious, devout, and penitent. All of them received the Sacrament, with much gravity and seeming Devotion, oftener than once. Williams declar'd, that he hoped for Salvation, through the Merits of his Redeemer, that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, particularly those for which he died, and that he forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from his Maker.

At the Place of EXECUTION,

MR Maynee went in a Coach, with a Mourning Coach attending him. When the Bell Man at St. Sepulcher's spoke to him over the Church Yard Wall, according to Custom, be cried a little, and was most serious at the short Prayers he used, and said Amen with the utmost Devotion: By the way he scarce spoke any thing, but held his Book in his Hand, and read godly Prayers for dying expiring Persons, and sometimes in a most devout manner said, Lord have Mercy upon me, a poor dying Sinner, Christ have Mercy upon me, Lord have Mercy upon me, and pardon my great and grievous Sins for Christ's sake. When he came to the Place of Execution, he said he had no more to add to his former Confessions, only looking towards the Spectators, he earnestly desir'd all Christians to pray for his poor Soul. George Wych said, he forgave all Mankind, and desir'd me to pray for him. Mr. Wych that Morning being ask'd by one who waited on him, if he would go in a Coach, said no, he would go in the Cart with Andrews, which he did accordingly:

John Chappel said, that he repented of his great Sins, and hoped to be saved by the Blood of Christ, and desired the World not to be so uncharitable, as to believe him guilty of other Capital Crimes falsly alledg'd to him, for that he had never committed any Capital Crime, excepting the cruel Murder for which he died,

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

An ADDRESS to the GENTLEMEN,

By Dr. GREGORIUS,

(Noted for his Skill in Surgery and Anatomy, as well as Physick and Chymistry.)

Who having observ'd the frequent Advertisements in the News Papers, of one and another Single Medicine, said to cure all Sorts of Gleets, and Seminal Weaknesses, which their Authors confound together, as if there were no Difference between them, has been prevail'd upon, by his Friends, in this Publick Manner, to inform, and undeceive those who have unwarily been brought into either, (or both together, as it sometimes happens) of these perplexing, draining Imbecilities.

That where the Gleeting is only from a Laxity of the Glands in the Urethra, what leaks and drills away insensibly from them, through the Urinary Passage, and spots or smears the Linnen, though it be yellowish, yet being without Pain, or any ill-condition'd Disorder, is no more than Mucus, and must be cured one Way.

And where it is a Seminal Weakness, that which slips away involuntarily, though it be thin, watery, and unelaborate, either by itself, in the Day-time, or a Nights too frequently, or profusely in the Sleep, or with the Urine, or upon Stool, whether from an Acrimony, or Depravity of the Juices, or by over straining the Spermatick Vessels, or both, is Seed, and is to be remedied another, inasmuch, as that Medicine which will cure the one, will not cure the other, and (vice versa) as every Practitioner that knows the Nature, Make, and different Situation of the Parts ministring to Generation, will allow; and that for want of this due Distinction, and right Application, it is, that so many People are disappointed of Cure; and by Continuance of the Gleetings, are drain'd, as they are, into Impotencies, or Infertilities, which as it hinders their Marrying, gives them great Anxiety, and the more, when attended, as in some, with Pain and Weakness in the Back and Reins; or as, in others, with Difficulty, or Dribblings of the Urine in, or after making it, which at Length comes away either foul, sharp, slimy, or of an ill Smell.

As this is so in Fact, and the Doctor well known to have experienc'd, in numberless Instances, the noble and never failing Effects of Two particular Balsamick Electuaries, which he spared no Pains or Expence to find out, the one to restrain the Mucus, and the other, the involuntary shedding of the Seed, by their respectively bracing up the Fibres, and restoring the Tone and Springiness of the relaxed Glands and Seminals, invigorating the Genitals, and fertilizing the Seed, was also perswaded to recommend their Use, that those, who, for a long while together, had tried other Medicines for the same Weaknesses, and by their not succeeding, concluded themselves incurable, might be convinc'd by their speedy Amendment and Recovery by these, that it was not the Incurability of their Malady, but the wrong Method they had been in for Cure,

But yet, in either of the said Two Weaknesses, or where it happens that they are complicated, and have proceeded, either from Self-Abuses, excessive, or over straining Coitions, or from over Purgations in Venereal Cures, or any other Cause, as a Flux of Humours generally falls down and settles upon all weakened Parts, rendering them still the weaker, and these tender nervous Parts more especially: The first Step to be taken in order to make way for a regular and substantial Cure, (and without which it is not to be accomplished) must, in a pecular Manner, be to correct, and gently divert those Humours; and the only Medicine he could ever rely upon to do this effectually, that is to overcome the Cause, and introduce the Cure of the most difficult of these Weaknesses, (even where the Vessels had been obstructed, Manhood greatly enfeebl'd, and in some, well nigh extinct, or at least not able to touch a Woman, but ad primum labiorum contactum semen emittunt;) has been his Preparing Pills, of which when the Patient has taken only three Doses, at due Distances he is to begin (and not before) with one or t'other (or both together, as the Case may chance to be) of the said Two Electuaries, which how to distinguish in, and how to proceed with, the printed Directions, wrap'd up with the Pills, do so plainly shew, that no Persons, even of the meanest Capacities, can be any Loss to understand them; but will, by their observing the easy Rules there in laid down, have their Blood and whole Body, well cleans'd and purified, the debilated Parts strengthened, and by Degrees, compleatly, and lastingly invigorated and restored, so as to be enabled quickly, and safely to Marry, without the least Need of any further, or other Advice or Medicine.

They are to be had, Price 7 s. 6 d. the Box, sealed up ready to be deliver'd to any Messenger, upon only asking for, A Box of Pills, at Mr. Payne's, a Bookseller, at the Crown, facing the Chapter Coffee house, in Paternoster Row.

Note, The said Two Electuaries, viz, Numb, 1, for Gleets, and Numb. 2, for Seminal and Genital Weaknesses, are to be had there also, Price 7 s. 6 d. each Pot and are likewise sealed up, and to be asked for by Electuary Number 1, or Electuary Number 2.

In Consideration of the daily Disturbance in Churches, by continual Coughing, is recommended-

The Original, Inestimable, Angelical ELECTUARY:

Being a speedy Cure for Coughs, Colds, Asthma's, Ptisick, Wheezings, difficult Breathings, and shortness of Breath.

A Preparation, not only to be had in Esteem from the Great Skill of all Medicinal Composition, but also from the choiceness of its Ingredients, every one of them contributing, by their particular Virtues, to make it the most effectual Medicine in the whole Republick of Physick. It daily overcomes the most grounded Coughs, though of never so long standing, and perfectly cures them in a very little Time; it's found to be the most sure help, and the only Medicine in the World, for old Consumptions, Ptisicks, Colds, Wheezings, Asthma's, shortness of Breath, and all other Diseases of the Breast and Lungs, restoring those that are left off by Physicians, remaining in utter Despair under the Burthen of their miserable Lives. It dissolves congealed Phlegm in the Thorax; takes away the tickling in the Aspera Arterea; heals rawness, and soreness of the Lungs, Breast, and Stomach, causing easy Expecturation; cures vehement Catarrhs, Distillation of Rheum, and all Fluxes of Humours, falling upon any of the noble Parts. It gives immediate Relief as soon as taken, in the severest of Coughing, and so perfectly frees the Patient at once. This Preparation is much more effectual than any Liquids or Tincture: A Tincture may give Ease by its Opiate Nature, but this Electuary, by its Balsamick and Subtile Property, effectually performs the Cure.

It is likewise an effectual Remedy for Whooping-Coughs in Children.

Prepar'd and Sold by the Author, a Chymist, at his House, the second Door on the Right Hand in Bride-Lane, near Fleet Street, where any Shop Keepers may be furnish'd therewith, with good Allowance. Also at Mr. Robotham's Toyshop, next the Gridiron, White-chappel Bars. At Mr. Brown's, a Bookseller; next Door to the King's Sadlers, Charing-Cross. At the Mitre in Jewin-street. At Mrs. Garway's, at the South Gate> of the Royal Exchange. At the White Gallon Pot, a Chandler's-shop, in Bandy Leg Walk, Southwark. At Mr. Neal's Toyshop, over against the White Hart Inn in the Borough of Southwark. And at Mr. Hamilton's at the Golden Ball, in Little Russel Street, Bloomsbury.

At One Shilling a Pot, with Directions.

I have also an infallible Remedy for Convulsions, and all Histerick Fits whatsoever; which hath made a perfect Cure, (when all other Remedies have fail'd) to their intire Satisfaction. One Guinea a Bottle.

Just publish d,

A Rational and Useful ACCOUNT of the VENERAL DISEASE: with Observations on the Nature, Symptoms, and Cure, and the bad Consequences that attend by ill Management; with proper Admonitions; recommended as a Friendly Instruction to all Persons who do, or may, labour under this Misfortune.

ALSO

A short Enquiry into Old GLEETS, and other Weaknesses; whether from Veneral Embraces, Self-Pollution or Natural Imbecillity, and the Reason why they are so seldom cur'd: With the Author's Method of Cure.

To which is added,

Some Hints of the Practical Scheme, the Methods an and Medicines therein expos'd, and the gross Impositions justly detected. With an Account of Specificks, the Use and Abuse of the Name, and how it covers Ignorance and a Cheat.

The Eighth Edition, corrected, with Additons.

By JOSEPH CAM , M. D.

Evasti? credo metues, doctusque cavebis, Quaeres quando iterum paveas, iterumque pevire Possis, ô toties servus! Horat. Principiis obsta. Ovid.

LONDON: Printed for the Author, and Sold at his House in Bow Church Yard, in Cheapside; and by Midwinter, in St. Paul's-Church-Yard. Price stitch'd one Shilling.

