THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 14th of March.

BEING THE SECOND EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon . MICAJAH PERRY , Esq ;

Number II. For the said Year.

LONDON :

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXVIII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Micajah Perry , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Right Honourable Lord Chief Baron Comyns, the Honourable Mr. Justice Chapple, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London, and other his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justice of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 17th, 18th, 19th, and 20th of January 1738-9, and in the 12th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. John Adamson , William Child , James James , Thomas Easter , John Masland , Thomas Davis , and Samuel Piper , and two Women, viz. Elizabeth Reynolds and Martha London , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and sentenc'd to die.

And also at the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Micajah Perry , Esq ; Lord-Mayer of the City of London , the Honourable Mr. Justice Page, the Honourable Mr. Baron Carter, the Honourable Mr. Justice Fortescue, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London, and other his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the 21st, 22d, 23d, and 24th of February, 1738-9, and in the 12th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. William Udal , James Lawler , James Leonard , Henry Johnson , Ashby Johnson , Edward Campbel , and Peregrine Audley , were by the Jury convicted

of capital Crimes, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

When under Sentence they were instructed in the Necessity of Regeneration, from these Words of our Saviour, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, except a Man be born again he cannot see the Kingdom of God, Joh. 33. They were inform'd, that it was absolutely necessary to become new Creatures, to forsake their former evil Ways, more especially those heinous Crimes which were the Cause of those grievous Afflictions which now they were under, and in order to attain this happy Change, they were to consider, that tho' they were admitted into the Christian Church by Baptism, and had been Partakers of this outward Symbol of the Covenant, yet having in a signal manner broken the Conditions of that solemn Engagement, so now it was incumbent upon them to renew these sacred Vows, and to seek after the spiritual Blessings procured by the Blood of Christ, and the influences and the Illumination of the Holy Spirit, by whom we are renewed in our Minds to Holiness in the Fear of God.

Two of them happening to die for the Sin of Uncleanness, they were inform'd, that Chastity or Purity was a principal Duty, with Regard to our own Bodies, for the Apostle says, He that committeth Fornication sinneth against his own Body, 1 Cor. vi. 18. and that this Virtue consisted in a perfect abstaining from all kind of Impurity, in Thought, Word, and Action. From these and such like Considerations, they were desired to consider how far they had deviated from the Rule of right Reason, Scripture and Religion, and to be importunate with God to create clean Hearts, and renew right Spirits within them, in imitation of penitent and holy David.

The rest of them suffering for Covetousness, Theft, and Robbery, they were advised to reflect upon the many Irregularities they had committed, how contrary these Practices were to the holy Christian Life, enjoin'd us by Christ and his Apostles, how destructive to all human Society in general, and how pernicious to themselves, in making them liable to the highest Penalties of human Laws, even Death itself. In Consideration of their being appointed to die, I exhorted them to prepare for Death and Judgment, to exercise a lively Faith upon Christ the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners, to repent sincerely of all their Sins, and to pray that the Love of God might be shed abroad in their Hearts.

They were also instructed in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, wherein our Baptismal Vows are renewed, our Faith strengthned, our Hope confirm'd, and our Love to God and Men encreas'd.

After Sentence they all attended in Chapel, and those of them who could read join'd in our Prayers; all of them were very attentive, and behaved indifferently well; but were not so much concern'd as People in their dismal Circumstance, ought to have been. Adamson was sick about three Weeks, when I visited him in the Cell, he expressed a deep Sense of his Guilt, and afterwards he came constantly to Chapel with the rest. Ashby Johnson attended in Chapel the first Sunday after Sentence, but Sickness afterwards confin'd him to his Cell many Days,

when he was visited, he declar'd himself very penitent, and anxious to attend the publick Worship; he was miserably poor, and had no Body to assist him. William Child was in the Master's Side for Felons, but on Sunday the 25th of February, being brought to the Press-Yard, he was put into the Cells, he came constantly to Chapel, and behav'd decently and devoutly, as did all the others. James Lawler and James Leonard were Roman Catholicks , and would not give much compliance with the Worship, but they were attentive and silent. John Masland wept bitterly, as did some others, when they were first reprov'd for their particular Vices, but that Fervour did not long remain A Day or two before the Dead Warrant came down, the two Girls Martha London and Elizabeth Reynolds , being confin'd in one Cell quarrell'd, and gave opprobrious Language to one another, as they had done several Times before; being inform'd of this, they were sharply reprov'd, and advised as they had been Sisters in Iniquity, so now it was their Duty to encourage one another in fearing and loving God, and to promote each others Resolutions of new Obedience; they cried very bitterly, promised to amend, and did behave better for the future. Some of them in Time of Divine Service talked too much, they were reprov'd, and desir'd to think upon the dangerous State they were in. Some Days before the Warrant came down, Henry Johnson grew sick, but he was desirous of being visited, and expressed a deep Sense of his Sin and Guilt.

On Thursday the 8th of March, Report was made to his Majesty in Council of the sixteen Malefactors lying under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate, when Elizabeth Reynolds and Martha London , two young Girls, for assaulting Ann Hornby in a certain Foot Passage near the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, &c. and taking from her a Camblet Gown, value. 2 s. a Cloth Cloak, value 6 d. a chequed Apron, value 1 d. a black quilted Coat, value 18 d. and a pair of Scays, value 4 s. January 10. William Child of Ealing , for assaulting Richard Gom and Robert Tiner , on the King's Highway, putting them in Fear, &c. and taking from the said Gem 5 s. in Money, and from the said Tiner 3 s. in Money; Edward Campbel of St. Giles's in the Fields , for breaking and entering the Dwelling-House of William Mumford , between 12 and 1 at Night, and stealing 24 Pair of Leather Shoes, value 40 s. February the 13th, and Thomas Davis for stealing 9 silver Buckles, value 35 s. the Goods of John Martin , Nov. 26, and a silver Watch, value 4 l. and a silver Cham, value 7 s. 6 d. the Goods of Abraham Poteira , from his Person, Oct. 30, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining Eleven, viz. Peegrine Audley , John Adamson James James , Thomas Easter , John Masland , Samuel Piper , Ashby Johnson , Henry Johnson , James Lawler , James Leonard , and William Udal , were ordered for Execution.

John Masland of St. Mary White-chaple , was indicted, for that he not having the Fear of God before his Eyes, &c. on the 20th of Sept. in and upon Mary Masland , Spinster , did make an Assault, and her against her Will, wickedly, unlawfully and feloniously, did carnally know and abuse, against the form of the Stat. &c.

1. He was about 44 Years of Age, born in Creed-Lane , of honest Parents, who put him to School to learn to read, write, cast Accompts, Navigation, and what other learning was necessary to accomplish him for Business. When of Age, he went to Sea , which Business he followed for many Years while he was young, and had been in many Parts of the World. He had a Relation who was a Merchant in Town, and who had employed him to serve on Board one of his Ships in the Guinea Trade, and that of several other Countries; and had not this Kinsman died, he might by his Interest and several other Relations, have been preferr'd to the Command of a good Ship, which would have put him in a reputable Way; but after this his Prosperity was at an End, he never enjoyed many more good Days: Once as he was in Guinea , in one of his Kinsman's Ships, the Blacks rose , thinking to Man and carry away the Ship; and one of them struck Marsland with a Hatchet upon the Forehead, so that he was almost kill'd, and there was a great Gash seen in his Forehead occasioned by this Wound; they, with difficulty, quell'd the Blacks, after killing several of them. He married a Wife, by whom he had several Children, who are all dead, except Her, who was the Evidence, against her Father. He gave but a mean Account that he had been a sober, regular Man, that he liv'd well and in good Friendship with his Wife, who was an honest, virtuous Woman; but she dying a few Years ago, he married a second Wife, now living, to whom he gave the foul Disease, for which she was put into St. Thomas's Hospital, and turn'd out as incurable, and that now she lives in a miserable Condition with her Mother, as she did at the Time of his Trial: At first, this the Disease flew all up into her Head, and affected her with madness, upon which she was put into Bedlam, and afterwards into St. Thomas's Hospital. He was very much inclined to drinking, and idle Company, which effectually ruin'd him. Of late Years he did not go to Sea, but struggled up and down the Town, selling Spirits distill'd at Home for French Brandy, to such as could not discern the difference; and sometimes he dealt in Gin, Rum, and other Things, but was always (he said) strictly honest, and wanted not Credit in the Dutch Trade to the Value of twenty, thirty, or forty Pounds, the Merchants trusting him, as he never fail'd in his Payments; by this means he supported himself and Family for some Years past. His Daughter Mary , was about 13 Years of Age, and sometimes went to Service , but being very young, did not stay long in a Place, but came often Home, and they having no other Conveniency for her, she used to lye in the Bed with her Father and Mother-in-law, but unfortunately coming Home about the 20th of September last, the Mother being then abroad for the Recovery of her Health, the Child suspecting no Evil, lay down by her Father, it being late at Night, and she swore that after she had been asleep, he assaulted her, and he us'd expressions not proper to be mentioned, telling her, Parents treated their Children so, &c. Next Morning she went out by seven o'Clock, and never saw the Father again, but upon his Trial; but went about from Place to Place for two or three Weeks, till at last she grew so bad, that she could scarce move; then she discover'd her Case to an Aunt and an Uncle; they had her examined by a Surgeon, who declared her tainted with the soul Disease. The Uncle thought the Crime so horrid, that he resolved to prosecute him, and procuring a Warrant from a Justice, after the Surgeon had made his Declaration, he sought three Weeks after him; but he had absconded; at last they found him and took him up. Though the Proof was clear, yet he was not willing to acknowledge his guilt, but pretended not to be conscious of his having committed the Fact, and that in his Sleep, he might in turning about, give her some Offence. I intreated him not to dye with a Lye in his right Hand, but to glorify God by a free Confession; upon which Subject I preached twice. After all could be said, he would not acknowledge his Crime; but blam'd his Brother-in-Law as having a Spite against him. He was too obstinate in his Temper, and all that was said to him did not affect him. Upon Wednesday the 24th of January, he abus'd his Brother who attended him daily, with scurrilous Language, because he would not encourage him as to a Reprieve, about which he was too anxious. I intreated him to compose his Thoughts, settling them wholly upon God and Eternity. He believ'd in Christ, said he was penitent; and died in Peace with every Body.

John Adamson , was indicted, for that he not having God before his Eyes, &c. on the 3d of October, in the Liberty of St. Martins-le-Grand , in and upon Katherine Waldgrave , an Infant, under the Age of ten Years, viz. of the Age of three Years and ten Months, feloniously did make an Assault, and her the said Catherine , wickedly, &c. did carnally know and abuse.

2. John Adamson , 20 Years of Age, born at Lynn , in the County of Norfolk , of honest Parents, his Father a Trader and Sea-faring Man, dyed and left him young, and John was left to the Care of the Mother, who gave him but little Education at School, nor much Instruction in Christian Principles. When he was of Age, his Mother got him into a Tavern at Lynn , where he serv'd as a Drawer for some Years, and was pretty sober, and perform'd his Duty when Time allowed him, 'till in Process of Time, his natural Inclination (with which he readily complied) too much appeared, for he grew very fond of lewd Women, and gave himself up to excessive drinking. Being weary of a Country Life, and desirous of seeing London , he some Years ago came to Town, and having neither Friends nor Acquaintance here, he was put to great straits how to live, and did what he could for subsistance, and to keep him from starving; but notwithstanding all his Industry, he was reduced to extremity and want, when Mr. Walgrave, a Silversmith , in St. Martins le Grand , out of Charity and Compassion, supposing him an honest young Fellow, and capable of learning his Art, took him Apprentice about four Years ago; here he learn'd his Business, and pleased his Master, and might have got his living very well, had not his vicious Prospensity for lewd Women driven him into Misfortunes; for he had not been above a Year in his Service, before he got the foul Disease, and his Master was so good, that he employ'd and pay'd a Surgeon for curing him, twice; all this he himself confess'd. As to the particular Fact for which he was tried and convicted, he acknowledged the same fully and freely, and that in that Affair, he was very ungrateful to Mr. Walgrave, who was a kind Master to him, and had done him many Favours. For this he declar'd himself very much grieved and sorrowful, begging Pardon of God and Man for his great Offence and heinous Crime, in abusing an innocent Child, infecting her with the foul Disease, and putting her in imminent Danger of her Life. He alledg'd at first, that he only once attempted the Crime; but afterwards, he own'd the Charge as given in Evidence against him, only he did not acknowledge some Circumstances, which its not proper to mention; and he complain'd a little of his Master, for cudgelling him into a Confession of the whole, and in the mean Time promising to deal favourably with him, upon a full Discovery. I told him, he had given him the utmost Provocation, and had no Reason to complain of his Usage. He own'd the Justice of his Sentence, and that he suffered most deservedly. A great Part of the Time he was sick, and did not attend in Chapel; when he grew a little better he came constantly to Chapel, and appear'd devout and serious; he was miserably poor and naked, neither was there any body to relieve him: He seem'd to me to be foolish, or a little craz'd; but he declar'd himself penitent, that he believ'd in Christ, and was in Peace with all the World.

William Udal , was indicted for assaulting Thomas Thorn on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. taking from him a Silver Watch, with a tortoiseshell Case, value 40 s. a Hat, value 2 s. a brass Seal, value 2 d. and 4 s. in Money, December 26.

William Udal , was a second Time indicted for assaulting John Bradford , on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. taking from him a Hat, value 1 s a drugget Coat, value 5 s. and 5 s. in Money, December 26

3. He was 22 Years of Age, born of reputable Parents, in Clerkenwell Parish, who gave him good Education, and taught him to read, write and cast Accompts. They gave him all the Instructions necessary to fit him for the World; he was sometime at the Charter-house School , and at Mr. Groves's in Red-lion-street , and when he was of Age, his Father bound him Apprentice to an eminent Watch maker in Leadenhall street , and he serv'd some Part of his Time honestly, and with approbation; afterwards he set up for himself, and would have done very well, as he was a very good Hand in his Business, had he not been devoted to idle Company, and too much addicted to gaming, drinking and other Vices. He once was about to marry a Wife, who was a Woman of Credit; but she discovering that he kept Company with Raby, lately executed for the Highway, and that he was suspected of following the same Courses, he was forbid the House, and in revenge upon himself, he associated with a common Woman of the Town, with whom he liv'd in a Bawdy-house, near Cheapside ; this Woman with others of her Kind, he blam'd for all his Misfortunes. He was a very vicious, extravagant Youth, and spent and let fly his Money after a strange Manner, having run out above 400 l. of his Father's Money. He had been often taken up for Debt, and was detain'd in the Marshalsea Prison when he, and Mann the Evidence against him, broke out and made their Escape; this being one of his last Exploits When he dyed, he owed 400 l to several Persons; he was also often imprison'd for Robberies, in Bridewell , Newgate , and other Places, and had

been often admitted an Evidence against his Confederates. On Flueln's Trial he was an Evidence, and being convicted he was executed on the 8th of November last; whenever he was at Liberty he always pursu'd his old Course, and at last he was taken, and as he had serv'd some others, himself was convicted of the two Robberies of Mr. Thorn and Mr. Bradford, by an Associate nam'd Mann, which Robberies he confessed as sworn against him. He own'd he had committed innumerable Highway and Street-Robberies, very many of which he did in Company with Raby the Barber in his Neighbourhood, lately executed. He was compleatly and irreclaimably wicked, being addicted to all those Vices which never fail to plunge such abandon'd Youths into Misery and Destruction; he constantly attended in Chapel, and behav'd regularly, but was not so serious as might be desir'd. I reprov'd him for speaking sometimes and smiling, he said he had a smiling Countenance, and did not speak out of any Disrespect, but could not help it. He declar'd his Hopes of Salvation thro' Christ, that he repented of a wicked and profligate Life, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Peregrine Audley , of St. Butolph without Aldgate , was indicted for assaulting William Mawley on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Hat, value 2 s. a Peruke value 3 s. and a Shilling in Money.

4. Peregrine Audley about 20 Years of Age, of mean Parents about East Smithfield , he had little or no Education, and his Father dying, and leaving him with two or three more upon the poor Mother's Care, she was not able to put him to any Business on Shore, therefore he went to Sea , and stay'd for some Time on Board a Man of War, when he came Home he loiter'd about East Smithfield , Rosemary Lane , and other Places which are the Resort of idle People. He pretended to have been employ'd in taking Care of Cattle, and driving them to and from Smithfield Market; but the chief Way he spent his Time was with Gangs of wicked and dissolute People, great Numbers of which are to be found towards that End of the Town; he was a poor, ignorant, illiterate Fellow, but he did not seem to be of a bad Disposition naturally, if he had not been led aside by bad Company. He would not acknowledge he had been guilty of any other Robberies, but alledg'd that he had liv'd honestly, tho' in a very poor Way.

As to the Robbery he was convicted of and died for, tho' William Mawley swore to the Loss of his Hat and other Things, as in the Indictment, and that Audley struck him on the Breast, and after that run away with his Booty, and that he never lost Sight of him till he got into Justice Riccard's Yard; yet notwithstanding this clear Proof, which was by other Circumstances confirm'd, he could not be persuaded to own the Fact in all the Circumstances attending it, alledging for Excuse, he was sent on an Errand to the Glasshouse, which is haunted by Multitudes of most notorious Thieves and Rogues. I endeavour'd to instruct him, as the shortness of Time allow'd, and he always seem'd devout. He hop'd for Salvation by the Mercy of God thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ, repented of all his Sins, and forgave every Body, as he expected Forgiveness of God.

Samuel Piper with Thomas Davis who receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve, was indicted for stealing 9 Silver Buckles, value 35 s. the Goods of John Martin , Nov. 26.

They were a 2d Time indicted for stealing a Silver Watch, value 4 l. and a Silver Chain, value 7 s. 6 d. the Goods of Abraham Poteira from his Person, Oct. 30.

5. Samuel Piper about 20 Years of Age born in Brook street , Holborn , of honest Parents not very rich, whose Circumstances allow'd them to give him but a very indifferent Education, however he was taught to read and write, and when of Age fit for Business, his Father bound him an Apprentice to himself, he being a House-Painter , but e could not be persuaded to mind his Father's or his own Interest, his Delight being to lie about the Streets.

At first he gave an Account that he commenc'd Pick-pocket about 3 Years ago, but when the Ded Warrant came down, he own'd he had follow'd that Trade above 4 Years, but he said he could not remember the exact Time of his commencing a Pick-pocket, but he said he had follow'd it ever since he had been at School, and had been several Times in Bridewell , where he had receiv'd the Discipline of the House.

He would not own the committing of any Highway or Street Robberies, nor Burglarys, tho' in December Sessions 1737, he was try'd with William Hardisty and acquitted, for robbing Charles Clark on the Highway. He marry'd a Wife of none of the best of Characters, tho' indeed he no Ways blamed her for his vicious Way of Life.

He had been very much addicted to all manner of Vice. He told me he had been at Sea with the Fishermen , not that he lov'd the Employment, or intended to follow it but for his Diversion, and to keep himself out of the Way when he

expected to be taken up. He own'd the stealing the 9 Silver Buckles from John Martin , and picking the Pocket of Abraham Poteira , of a Silver Watch and Silver Chain in the Street, over-against the great Toy-Shop at the Corner of St. Paul's Church yard , upon Lord-Mayor's Day last; and beside these two Robberies he acknowledg'd that he had committed many others, which was past numbering, but all of the same kind.

While he was under Sentence he always behaved to appearance the most devout and penitent of them all. He own'd the justness of his Sentence, and that he most deservedly suffer'd for a very profligate Life, especially since he could have lived by his Trade much better, and more plentyfully than ever he could pretend to do by such unlawful and wicked Practices. He believ'd in Christ as the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners, and sincerely repented of all his Sins, in evidence whereof he often shed Tears, especially on the Sunday before they suffer'd in Time of Divine Service, and forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

Thomas Easter , was indicted for assaulting Samuel Mills and John Hill , on the King's Highway, putting them in Fear, &c. and taking from the said Mills half a Guinea, and 10 s. in Silver, and 15 s. from the said Hill, June 30.

6. Thomas Easter 24 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Norfolk , 10 Miles North from the City of Norwich , he had had little or no Education, he was put out Apprentice to a Butcher , and serv'd some part of his Time to the Business. While he continued in the Country he liv'd honestly, but when there was no Hopes of a Reprieve, and I question'd him again upon that Subject, he acknowledged, that in his own Country he had committed a number of Highway Robberies, and had broke several Houses. About 4 Years ago he came to London , because he was afraid to stay any longer at Home, on Account of his repeated Villianies. Here he serv'd Butchers in White-Chapel and Places thereabout as a Journey-man, but soon falling in with wicked Company, he was easily led to his old Trade, which he follow'd ever since he came to Town, having (he said) committed such a number of Robberies, that he could not recount them. The robbing of Mr. Mills and Mr. Hill, June 30, in a Lane called the Devil's-Lane , and his threat'ning to shoot them thro' the Head, he own'd. Upon Sunday Afternoon, the 4th Instant, seeing him in his Cell, he wept most bitterly, his Conscience checking him for his villainous Life, Life; and when I asked him if he had any thing more to say before he died? he answered that he was in very great Trouble for the many great Sins of his Life; that he was one of the wickedest Men that ever was born, that he believed he had committed all kind of Sins, except Murder. John Marsland , and two or three others were present; they also shed abundance of Tears, confessing that they had been very wicked Sinners; but Marsland would not own his Crime.

I comforted them with the Mercies of God in Christ, and prayed God to enlighten their Minds and so dispose them for Death, Judgement and Eternity. Thomas Easter being ignorant, I instructed him as Time allowed. He always attended the Worship of God, though a great Part of the Time he was Sick, but behaved decently and submissively. He declared his Faith in Christ, that he repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all the World.

James James , alias Jemmy the Drummer, was indicted for privately stealing a Slver Hilted Sword, value 30 s. from the Person of John Cotton , Esq ; December 20.

James James , 24 Years of Age, born in Town, of honest Parents, his Education was suitable to his Parents Condition; when he was of Age, he was put to a Waterman , which had been his Father's Business, and he served out his Apprenticeship though in a very indifferent Manner. When he grew weary of his Business, and of his lawful Employment, he got acquainted with a Gang of Thieves, and spent his Time with them, among whom he soon commenced an able Pick-pocket, and improved so much in the School of Iniquity, that he was always employed in Crowds for the Advantage of himself and his Companions. He own'd the Robbery he died for, viz. stealing of Mr. Cotton's Sword from his Side, the Handle of which Sword they melted into a Bar, which they sold to a Silversmith in Town. And besides these, he acknowledged himself to have been guilty ot a great Number of other Robberies.

He was a most abandoned Wretch, but before he died, his Conscience awaking, he most bitterly lamented the unaccountable Actions of an ill spent Life. He hoped for Salvation through the infinite Mercy of God in Christ, was penitent, and died in Peace with all the World.

James Lawler , alias Lawley , and James Leonard , were indicted for assaulting George Lines , on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking

from him a Hat, value 21 s a Peruke, value 3 l 3 s and a Gun, value 25 s December 24th.

8 James Lawler , 27 Years of Age, born of honest Parents, in the City of Dublin ; when at a proper Age, he was put Apprentice to a Blacksmith at Dublin, and being out of his Time, he liv'd by his Business for some Time, and married a Wife, by whom he had several Children, one of whom is now living.

He being suspected as an ill Man in Ireland , came over some Years ago to London , and afterwards sent for his Wife and Family, and they settled about Drury Lane , where he liv'd in a Cellar, and made it a Receptable for infamous People. Sometimes he work'd at his own Business, as one or two upon the Trial declared; and he own'd, that by his Business he might have maintain'd his Wife and Family, had he been contented with his Lot.

As to the Fact he dyed for, he could not deny it altogether, but would not own it as Cravenaugh swore it against him. He was a biggotted in the Romish Catholick , and made but little Confession; he believed in Christ, repented, and died in Peace with all Men.

9. James Leonard , Partner with James Lawler , in the above Robbery, 23 Years of Age, born at Dublin , of mean Parents, and was brought up in the Roman Persuasion . At a proper Age, he was put out to a Shoe-maker , and served his Time honestly. Afterwards he followed his Trade for some Time at Dublin ; but not content with what he could get at Home, he went abroad to Spain , and listed in a Regiment at Cadiz , there he lived some Years, but did not do much Business as a Soldier , for he was most Part of the Time employed in the Service of the British Consul , and wanted for nothing, but being of an unsettled Temper, he long'd to be at Home in Ireland again, and about a Year ago, he got his Passage to Ireland , where he stayed only a very short Time, but hasten'd over to London , and fix'd about Drury-Lane , with his old associate James Lawler , with whom he lodg'd in a Cellar; sometimes he wrought at his Trade, being employed by his Countryfolks, but the abandoned Company he kept, soon engaged him in their wicked Courses, which brought him to his fatal End.

He had committed many Thefts and Robberies, and dy'd in the Romish Communion , unwilling to confess much, but gave the Evidence Cavenaugh, ill Names; both he and Lawler were morose and obstinate. He died in the Christian Faith, and in Peace with every one.

Henry Johnson was indicted for rippping and stealing 148 lb of Lead, fixed to the Dwelling-house of Hugh Colley , Clerk , Jan. 18.

He was a 2d Time Indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling house of Hugh Colley , Clerk , about the Hour of 10 at Night, with a felonious Intent to steal his Money and Goods, Jan. 18.

10. Henry Johnson , 29 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Essex , who at a proper Age put him to a Brick-layer , by which Business be sometime liv'd, but Business growing slack, because of the multiplicity of Hands, he came to London , thinking to better his State, but being likewise disappointed here he went to Sea, and proving a good Sailor , he serv'd on Board several King's and Merchant Men, and made several Voyages to different Parts of the World; but by his ill Management render'd himself uncapable of providing for his Wife and Child. He complain'd that the Number of Sailors made it difficult to get Employment even at Sea: He had long belong'd to the Gangs of Thieves and Rogues about White chapel and Stepney , who infest that End of the Town.

He had been guilty of many Burglaries and other Robberies, and was a very profane Fellow, entirely negligent of God and Religion, and wholly addicted to all manner of Vices. He had but one Man engag'd with him in breaking Mr. Colley's House, who made his Escape a little before Johnson was taken; he confessed his wicked Design upon Mr. Colley's House, and that only one was to assist him therein, tho' he own'd he knew and was acquainted with great numbers of Thieves and Robbers. For some Days he kept his Bed, not so much for Sickness, as lowness of Spirits, and distress of Mind; he always behav'd well, declar'd himself penitent, that he believed in Christ, and was in Peace with all Men.

Ashby Johnson of Harrow on the Hill , was indicted for breaking and entering the House of Thomas Brian , Esq ; about 12 at Night, and stealing thence a Cloth Great Coat, value 10 s. a linnen Shift, value 3 s. the Goods of John Edlin in the said Dwelling-house, Jan. 16.

He was a 2d Time indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling-house of Thomas Thompson , about 12 at Night, and stealing a Hat, value 2 s. a pair of leather Boots, value 9 s. the Goods of Thomas Thompson , and a Plush Coat, value 9 s. and a Dimitty Waistcoat, value 3 s 6 d. the Goods of Henry Rudd , Jan. 31.

11. Hew as 22 Years of Age, born of mean Parents near Hempstead , who gave him no

Education, but cast him upon the Parish, and they bound him Apprentice to a Farmer in the said Parish, to teach him Country Work, and to manage Cattle, &c. With this Master he serv'd out his Time of 7 Years, he afterwards for some short Time serv'd Farmers, and drove their Waggons to London from Hempstead . If we may believe himself, in the preceeding part of his Life, he was honest, and wrong'd no Body: He was a poor, ignorant, illiterate Fellow, and knew very little of God or of Religion; I endeavour'd to instruct him as Time allow'd, but he was of a mean Capacity, and oppressed with Dispositions, and had such Disorders upon him, that one could hardly bear to go into his Cell, tho' I ventur'd pretty often to pray with him, and warn him of his near approaching Fate. He came to Chapel the first Sunday he was under Sentence, and only once or twice more, but behav'd well, being attentive and serious; he was grievously afflicted with Sickness and Weakness. At first he inclin'd to extenuate his Crime, but upon my urging and representing to him his heinous Sin, he acknowledg'd the Justice of his Sentence, and that he suffer'd most deservedly. He believ'd in Christ, was penitent for the Offences of his Life, especially what he dy'd for, and was in Peace with all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THEY was brought out of the Cells about 7 o'Clock in the Morning of their Execution, and went up to Chapel, where they all receiv'd the Blessed Sacrament with great Devotion, and most of them cry'd and wept bitterly, especially Marsland, Piper, and Adamson.

After Prayers were over, they were put into their respective Cells again for a short Space of Time, and then call'd our one by one to have their Irous knocked off, and to be halter'd and pinion'd.

After which they were convey'd in four Carts to Tyburn, between the Hours of Nine and Ten o'Clock in the following Manner, viz.

Samuel Piper , James James , otherwise Jemmy the Drummer, and William Udal , in the first Cart. John Marsland , who ravish'd his own Daughter of about 13 Years of Age, Thomas Easter and Henry Johnson , in the 2d Cart. James Lawler , Lames Leonard, and Peregrine Audley , in the 3d Cart. Ashyb Johnson , and John Adamson , who ravish'd his Master's Daughter, about 3 Years and 9 Months old, in the 4th Cart.

When they came to the Place of Execution, all of them were very much shock'd, and seem'd to outward Appearance very much concern'd for their manifold Sins.

When Prayers were over, James Leonard reflected upon one of his Associates, and said, that a Person was now a Prisoner in Newgate for a Highway Robbery, who is an Irishman, upon a false Oath of another of his own Countrymen.

They adher'd to their former Confessions, not having any more to add.

Most of them made a full and plain Confession of their Crimes; others were not so free and genuine.

They went off the Stage crying out, God have Mercy upon us, Lord Jesus receive our Spirits.

This is all the Account given by me

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

The following Lines were delivered by WILLIAM UDALL , to the Printer of these Papers, with a Request that they might be published, for the Reasons mentioned in the Beginning thereof.

SINCE my being apprehended (this last Time) I have looked upon myself as a dying Man, as one who had but a few Days to spend in this Life; for though I have been but a few Years engaged in these rash destructive Courses, yet I have several Times appeared before the Court at the Old Baily , having had the good Fortune as often to have been admitted an Evidence against some of my Companions, therefore I had too much Reason to expect, that as the two Robberies upon the Causeway between Islington and Holloway would be prov'd upon me, those Convictions would put a Period to my Life.

It can hardly be imagined (I think) that a Man sensible of his unhappy Condition, and that he is but a few Moments from Eternity, can be induc'd from any Pleasure he takes in the Review of a wicked, vicious, ill-spent Life, to recite those Crimes to the World which he must repent of, or be for ever miserable: But least any one should believe that to be my Motive thereto, I think it necessary to declare, that I look upon my self (in this dying Condition) bound to take Shame and Confusion of Face to myself, and for the Benefit of the World to mention some Facts in order to clear particular Persons who are suspected of having been concerned therein, and to warn Youth by my sad Example to avoid those Courses, which sooner or later end in Misery, Destruction and Death.

My Father was a Man of good Reputation in the Parish of St. James's, Clerkenwell , a Distiller by Trade; he took Care of my Education, and sent me to School to Mr. Groves, in Red-Lyon-street , where I continued till it was Time for me to be put to Business; accordingly I was bound Apprentice to Mr. James Hagar , who at that time lived in Leadenhall street , over-against the East-India House, and was since Partner with Mr. Webster in Exchange-Alley. Here (God forgive my poor Soul) began my Dishonesty, for a Journeyman my Master employ'd, communicated to me the Method of scraping the Insides of the Cases of Gold Watches which came to be mended, &c. and by this Means I got so much Money, as made me extravagant and vicious, and exposed me to many Temptations. I continued with Mr Hagar four Years and three Quarters, but he then dying, my Mistress turned me over to Major Woolhead, who gave her seventeen Guineas for the Residue of my Time, out of which she gave me seven, and kept ten to herself. But I did not stay above eleven Weeks with Mr. Woolhead, for getting acquainted with one Stanbridge at Clerkenwell , I made an Agreement with him to work with him for a Year, and he gave me a Bond to procure me my Freedom when my Time should be expired.

While I was with Mr. Stanbridge my Acquaintance began with Raby (lately executed) and Jack Pool ; this was about five Years ago, and with them I first commenced a Thief; they urged me to go with them to pick Pockets, to which I consented, and leaving Mr. Stanbridge, I got acquainted with Wager, Baker, and the rest of that Gang, and have committed many Robberies in their Company, in Fleet-street , Leadenhall-street , Bloomsbury Square , and the King's Road ; but after some Time Wager and Baker quarrelling with me about the dividing some Money, I left their Company, and robbed with Raby Our Place of meeting was at J - e W - ms's House in Hanging-Sword-Alley in Fleet street . Whenever we got any Thing he used to Stand Lock, that is, he used always to dispose of it.

When Raby and I had parted with Wager and his Company, my Father, who always was very fond of me, set me up in my own Business; Raby's Mother likewise set him up in a Barber's Shop, in Order to our living honestly, and forsaking our vicious Companions and Courses, and we both kept to our Business for the Space of 3 Months, but did not entirely leave our old Haunts, for we frequently went to drink at Mother Bird's , in Colson's-Court , in Drury Lane , and at another House in the same Lane, at both which Places I have spent and lost in Gaming a Hat full of Guineas.

Here we got acquainted with Jack Poole and George Sutton (since executed) and they tempted me away from my Business when I had Employment enough to have maintained myself very well, and in an honest Way, for I had Work

from Gentlemen of Credit and Fortune, and when I left my Shop to engage with them, I had between 20 and 30 Watches in my Custody, which had been brought me to mend and clean, all which I ran away with, and disposed of to support myself and my Companions in our Extravagancies. When this Money was gone, Sutton, Poole, and on F - n C - s, put it into my Head, that as I was known to the Workmen in the Watch-making Business , I might take up Work from them in my Master's Name, and upon his Account. I attempted the Thing, and told the Workmen my Master had a Customer waiting in the Shop, and had sent me for such and such Goods, which I was to carry him immediately. As my Master was a Man of a very good Character, and I being known to them, our Design succeeded, and I got Parcels of Work from differrent Persons to a very considerable Value.

One wicked Device of mine I think it now my Duty to mention, to prevent People's being deceived by dishonest Men, and that was this: When I was determined to abandon my Business for the Sake of my wretched Companions, whatever Watches I sold, I sold several Times over, and to as many different People as I could. I have sold several Pieces of Work that have been worth five or six Guineas, and have taken three Guineas in Part of Payment, agreeing if the Watch prov'd ill, or went not well, to alter it, or return the Money in such a limited Time, and all the Watches I then disposed of, I took Care should be complain'd of, by which Means I got them again under Pretence of making them keep Time, and immediately have disposed of them again to Persons whom I have likewise served in the Manner I did the first Buyer: For this I ask Pardon both of God and the Persons I have thus injured.

When Raby and I had resolved to take the Highway, we soon put our Design into Execution, and committed many Robberies upon Epping-Forrest , and about St. Alban's , Barnet , Finchley , &c. at which last Place we robb'd the St. Alban's Stage-Coach, Raby stopped the Coach, and I rode up to the Coach Door, and told them I was a younger Son, and was in Necessity for Money, upon which they delivered me about five Pound in Money. One Circumstance of Inhumanity in this Robbery troubles me very much, for I happening to tell Raby that I observed a very handsome Ring upon one of the Gentlewomen's Fingers, he rode back and demanded it, and being press'd for Time, he pull'd out his Knife and cut off the Woman's Finger, because he could not readily draw the Ring off After this Fact we cross'd the Road directly to Hendon beyond Hampstead , and robb'd several Persons about those Places; then we came to a House in Drury-lane , and shared the Booty.

At that House we got acquainted with Sutton, who then liv'd in the House; he perswaded us to go with him and George Greenaway to the Playhouses, and when the People were coming out, one of us used to speak to a Gentleman or a Gentlewoman, pretending to know them, and while we pretended to be mistaken and beg Pardon, the others of our Company always pick'd the Man's Pocket in the Crowd, or cut off that of the Woman's.

This Course we followed for one whole Year, the Person nick-nam'd L - d V - n, and one who kept a Publick House in the Strand, was at that time one of our Company.

While we were engaged in this Way, it was our Custom to wait under the Piazza's at Covent-Garden till the Play was done, and one Night Raby, Vaughan, and one Dick Hodges , being with me, I was sauntering at a little Distance from them, and an elderly Gentleman came up to me and fell into Conversation with me: He asked me what Business I was of? I told him I lived at Colchester, that my Mother kept a Hosier's Shop there, but my Father being dead, I came to London to get into some Business, and having heard talk of Covent-Garden, I was come there to see the Place. He asked me if I was not short of Money, and if I would not go and drink with him? I thank'd him, and told him he was a Stranger to me, and I did not chuse it. However he prevail'd upon me to go with him to the Castle-Tavern in Drury Lane , and I wink'd at my Companions to follow us. When we came to the Tavern he asked me several Questions, by which I understood his Intentions, and at last he spoke his Mind very plainly I told him I had heard in the Country that at London People stood in a Wooden Thing for such Things; but at last he perswaded me to take a Walk with him; I beckoned my Companions to follow us, and we went through Lincoln's-Inn Fields into Southampton-street , and from thence towards Powis's Wells , and just before we came to the Wells under a dead Wall, he stopp'd, and began to be very sweet upon me; upon this Vaughan, Raby, and Hodges, came up, and we robbed him of his Gold Watch,

and twelve or thirteen Guineas in Money, and threw him into a Ditch that ran along the Causeway under the Wall, then we came away to Hodges's Room in Colson's-Court , and shar'd the Money.

In Company with this Hodges, Raby and I have often defrauded Goldsmiths, by cheapening Gold Rings, concealing them, and leaving neat Brass ones gilt, instead of those we brought away with us:

It has been suspected that I have been guilty of Murder in some of our Highway Robberies, but as I am a dying Man I know of no more than one Person that was killed, and in that Murder (I think I may say) I was not concerned, for that Accident happened in the following Manner.

Wager, Baker, and I, being out upon the Uxbridge Road , we attacked a Stage Coach with six Horses. Baker observing a Man behind with a Blunderbuss, swore if he did not immediately fling it away he would shoot him dead upon the Spot. Wager at the same Time stood by the Coachman and I by the Postilion. When the Man had thrown his Blunderbuss from him, Baker rode up to the Coach Door and robbed the Passengers; when he had done, as we were all riding off, the Man drew a Horse Pistol from under his Coat, and firing at us I was wounded, and fell down stunn'd upon the Pummel of my Saddle; when I came to myself, I found one of my Companions, imagining I was killed, turned back and shot the Man through the Body.

By this Accident I was rendered for some time uncapable of going out with them, for I was very much wounded, and was carried to one Combes's, a Farmer about five Miles from Uxbridge , where I lay six or seven Wocks ill of my Wounds, and was all that Time attended by a Surgeon, which Wager and Baker had got to take care of me.

There was a Murder committed indeed much in the same manner at Turnham-Green, upon a Man who came as Guard to a Stage Coach, which set out from the Bell-Savage-Inn on Ludgate-Hill: This Murder was committed by some of our Company; but I solemnly declare I was not concerned is that Fact, nor present with them when it was committed.

I was concerned with Raby and Poole in robbing a young Woman of a Handkerchief, a Short-Cloak, and her Pocket, in Fenchurch-street , for which they were tried and acquitted. After this Robbery, my Father, in order to take me from my bad Company, arrested me for Debt, and put me into the Compter, hoping to keep me out of the Way till my Companions were separated, or taken off by the Hand of Justice; but Ramsey being at that Time detained there in Order to his being admitted an Evidence against Cross and Carr, for defrauding Mr. Hoar, I got acquainted with him, which my Father perceiving, he took me out, to prevent the Increase of our Intimacy. But some Time after this Ramsey being discharged, I met him at a Friend's House, and we immediately agreed to go upon the Highway with Fluellin (who was lately executed.) Accordingly we hired Horses at the Three Colts at London Wall, and rode to Epping-Forrest , where we committed several Robberies upon several Persons, among others we attempted to rob 'Squire Braddyl, but he made so much Resistance, that we were forced to ride off without taking any Thing from him; but as we came towards London again, we had better Success, for we robbed several People in Stratford Road , and when we came Home we shar'd the Money.

The Cause of most of my Misfortunes was my keeping Company with a Woman of the Town, whom I endeavoured to support by these unlawful Means; yet when I happened to be short of Money, and took five Rings from her, which (she said) were the Property of one C - n, with whom she had formerly lived, she got him to take me up with a Judge's Warrant, and I was carried to Mr. T - 's (the Tipstaff) House near Temple-Bar ; upon which I sent to C - n to comprise the Matter. He insisted not only on my returning the Rings which I had pawn'd, but on my giving him a Bond that I would never live with P - g Y - g any more, nor prevent his living with her.

I would not consent to this, upon which I was ordered (for Want of Sureties) to be sent to the King's-Bench, and was to have gone there the next Morning. While I was in Mr. T - 's House, a Friend of mine brought me a small Spring-Saw, in Order to my making my Escape from thence, but I did not make any Use of it, for Mr. T - s and his Man being obliged to go out about Business the Morning I should have been carried away, I was permitted to come down from the Room where I lay, with another Prisoner, into the Kitchen, and the Maid having the Key of the Street Door, we forced it from her, and made our Escapes. I found out Ramsey pre

sently, and he, and I, and others went out again upon the Old Game, till I was taken up for Clacking the Doctor at an Apothecary's in the Strand , and was committed to Newgate , upon which I turned Evidence against Fluellin in order to regain my own Liberty.

The ensuing Sessions Fluellin was convicted and I was discharged out of Custody. On the Monday after my Enlargement I happened to meet one Lydia Clark , and went to drink with her at the Elephant and Castle in Fleet Lane . There I found P - g Y - g (my Wife as I call'd her) and C - n and one B - n G - d, a Thief-taker C - n immediately told my Wife, - there was the Thief her Husband, and he said he would take me up again by Vertue of the Judge's Warrant, if I did not give him a Note for the Value of the Rings; upon which I gave him a Note for 4 l. payable two Months after Date. Notwithstanding I had done this he soon after arrested P - g Y - g in an Action for 20 l. thinking that the Value I had for her would induce me to assign over to him my Share of the Reward for Fluellin's Conviction, to get her out of Wood-street Compter, where she lay at his Suit; and he Note I had given him being due soon after, arrested me likewise, and I was carried to the Marshalsea Prison ; but as I had a little Money left, and a few Friends to assist me, I stood Trial with C - n, and was cast in the Sum of Eight Pounds, including Debt and Costs of Suit.

While I was confined on this Account in the Marshalsea , Thomas Mann , (the Evidence against me) and I agreed to make our Escapes. By my Directions a Friend of his brought us a Spring Saw, a Key Hole Saw, and some Gimblets, and I began to will it away at the Chapel, from whence I broke into adjoining Room, and from thence into a Closet, where I cut the Window Bar, and took off the Casement.

All Things being now ready, I returned to Mann, (who all this while had done nothing) and old him the Jo was done, upon which he took a Hope that his Wife had brought him the Evening before for this Purpose, and ty'd it to a Bar of the Window, and he got down first and I followed him. This was between eight and nine o'Clock at Night, rather too early in the Evening, for a Man came out of a House adjoining, and would have stopped us, but Mann swore bitterly if he made any Noise he would kill him, which made him quiet, and so we got off to Pepper-Aliey Stairs , where we took Boat to Queenhithe , from whence I went directly to my Friends at Clerkenwell , and promised them I would go over to Holland if they would pay for my Passage. They gave me Money for that Purpose, and promised to supply me very handsomely when they heard of my Arrival there; but Mann and I going to Mrs. M - 's at the Ship in Charter house-Lane , there I spent all the Money my Friends had given me, and got very much in Liquor; then I started the Question to him about going on the Road; he consented, and Mrs. M - s furnished me with a Hanger and a Brace of Pistols, and lent us Money to hire our Horses, and accordingly we hired Horses under Pretence of going down in the Country to buy Sheep, Mann being a Butcher by Trade; but Mann being fearful, he proposed Bargining in the Country for Sheep, and giving Earnest for a Parcel, then to watch an Opportunity in the Night to drive them off the Grounds. I consented to this, and we went as far as the Fleece at Edmonton upon this Project, there we drank two or three Hot-pots, and then he agreed to venture upon the Highway, instead of pursuing the former Design.

Accordingly we set out from thence and robbed a Coach beyound Edmonton , from four Ladies we took 35 s. from a single Man on Horseback we took about 12 s. and a silver Watch. Then we returned to London , and put up our Horses at the Red-Lyon in Aldersgate-street (where we hir'd them) and went from thence to M - 's, and shared the Money.

The next Morning I went with Mann to his Wife's Lodgings in Rose-street , by Old-Street-Square , and from thence we took Horse and rode as far as Brentwood , in which Road we robbed the Passengers in two Waggons of about l 7 s. and three plain Gold Rings. Then we turned homewards, and robbed two Gentlemen in the Road between the Green-Man on the Forrest and Stratford of about 4 l. and a Watch; then we proceeded towards London, but in the Way I got a Fall from my Horse, and was very much hurt; however we got to M - 's, and shar'd the Money.

My Hurt obliged me to keep up for two or three Days, and Mann could do nothing without me; when I was pretty well we agreed to go our again the Afternoon after Christmas-Day, and accordingly we set out for the Castle at where we had a Supper dressed. After Supper we agreed to go on the Road the Backside of Islington ,

in Hopes of meeting some Grasiers who generally went Home that Way. As we were going along I went up to a Gentleman on Horseback and robbed him of 27 s while Mann stood at a Distance, and did not know what I was about. Then, not meeting with the Grasiers, we turned towards Holloway , and came into that where we attacked Mr. Thorn and Mr. Brford, and robbed them of what was laid in the Indictments against us.

On the Saturday following we agreed to go to Epping-Forrest to take a Horse from thence which we had seen and liked; we went, but were disappointed of the Horse, and came back without doing any Business; but we at last got one at Islington , upon which I afterwards rode to Epping-Forrest , and committed several Robberies. Then we came to Mann's Lodgings and divided what we had got.

At that Time he told me he was resolved to go out no more with me, so I went to the House I frequented in Charter-house-Lane , and expected to have seen no more of him, but when he had spent all his Money he came to me and agreed to go out again with me. But somebody having informed the Keeper of the Marshalsea that we were at this House, he sent Nine Men to take us for breaking out of Goal; as soon as we heard them we ran up Stairs, and got out of a Window into an Alley that leads into Long-Lane , and so we went off. But the Thief-takers seized the Woman of the House, her Maid, and two other Persons, and carried them to the New Goal, where they were confined two or three Days, then they promised to be assisting in taking us if they might have their Liberty; upon this they were discharged, and some few Days afterwards as Mann and I were going to take Horse at the White Lyon at Islington in order to raise a little Money on the Road, we met the Woman of the House and two Men belonging to the Goal, we immediately pulled out our Pistols, and swore we would shoot them if they came near us, but the Woman told us we need not fear, for the Men did not intend to hurt us, so upon her Perswasions we all went to drink together at Pancras , there the two Men spoke to me in private, and told me I should be forgiven if I would consent to their taking Mann, because the Debt for which he was confin'd was a large one. I seem'd to comply, but I told them I did not care he should be taken in my Company, - I would leave him, when we got to Town, and then they might take him. But I had no such Design in my Head, for as we came together towards London , I told Mann the Story, and in one of the Fields we drew out our Pistols and threatened to shoot them if they did not go off directly; accordingly they went away from us, and we went immediately to the White Lyon for our Horses and rode to Epping-Forrest , where we robbed a Gentleman on Horseback, then we came to London , but I left my Horse at the Bell , a Publick House in the Road between the Green-Man and Stratford . I went that Night to Mann's Lodgings in Rose-street , very much in Drink; but Mann's Wife not being at home, he lock'd me into the House and went out to look for her; the Thief-takers being out upon the Search they took him, and he to save himself told them I was in the House, and gave them the Key of the Door, so I was taken out of Bed and carried to the Marshalsea , from whence I was removed by a Habeas Corpus to Newgate , and charged with the Felonies, Mann having made himself an Evidence against me.

'Tis not above five Years since I began these irregular Courses, which have cost my Father above 400 l. for I have very often been in Custody, and he has always with much Expence and Trouble appeared in order to procure me my Liberty. Had I been industrious in my Business, I could have earn'd 30 s. a Week as easily as I can write my own Name, and I have got a great deal of Money by my Business, but what am I the better now for all my Gettings? An untimely Death is my Reward! Better would it have been for me if I had gone naked all over England, begging my Bread from Door to Door.

William Udall .

Copy of a Letter sent by Udall to P - g Y - g, with whom he had cohabited.

From my Cell, Feb. 25. 1738.

My Dear,

THESE, with my kind Love to you, hoping these few Lines will find you in good Health; as for my Part, I am as well as can be expected for one under my My dear, I send this to you, to desire you come to me, for I have a great, Mind to see you before I dye; you know that when you was under your Trouble, I never forsook you

when I had my Liberty, bt did to the utmost of my Power; I don't want any Money of you, for I have Money enough from my poor unfortunate Sister; I have something to reveal to you, and then I shall dye happy, if I see you, and forgive all the World, as I hope for Forgiveness in the next World; I sent to you before I was cast a great many Times, but you never come nigh me. O Lord turn your hearden'd Heart, to come to me! as for the false Reports of the World to you, they are raised to prevent your coming: But Lord God who knowest every Word and Action, send that the Gates of Heaven may shut up against me, and never shew me Mercy, if I have been guilty of what you have been told, since I was with you last in Woodstreet-Compter; consider within yourself, whether you have done as you ought to have done; if I was the biggest Rogue in the World, and the greatest Stranger, you could not have slighted one more; I look upon you, as my own Flesh and Blood, and if you be so slighting, whom I never offended, how do you think I can think God will shew me Mercy; If you don't, O Lord turn the Heart of this Woman, turn the Heart of her O Lord, it is all my Cry O Lord, to bring her nigh to me, that I may reveal my Mind to her, or else if you don't come, I shan't die in Peace; in your coming, I shall forgive all the World, as I hope for Forgiveness thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ; I shall say no more at present, but your coming will make me easy in my Mind.

From your dying Husband before God.

William Udall .

P. S. When you come I will give you a Note where your Rings are which brought me to this unhappy Fate.

I William Udall , was cast for my Life, Feb. 22, 1738-9. To whom God grant true Repentance.

Now in my lone Cell do I lie,

I'm cast and am sentenc'd to die:

Of all my old Friends I take leave,

For now I expect no Reprieve.

Tho' my Life was so wickedly spent,

Yet I hope that in Peace I shall die,

And that I shall truly repent,

And live with the blessed on High.

To Mrs. Udall, at Mrs. Foster's, in Seacole Lane.

John Adamson 's Account of Himself.

I Was born at Lynn , in the County of Norfolk , and am now about 21 Years old. My Father was a Taylor, and dy'd when I was but two Years of Age. When I was three Years old, I was taken from my Mother by an Aunt, who kept a Tavern in the same Town; by her I was brought up, and she would have given me a good Education, if I would have received it; but she never could get me to learn so much as to read one Chapter in the Bible. As therefore she had little hopes of me, she would have bound me Apprentice to a Captain of a Ship, but I refused at that Time to go to Sea. Afterwards my Mind altered, and I was desirous to go, but then she would not agree I should. Upon this I determin'd to come up to London , and happening to hear that one Mr. Barnard, a Silversmith in Gutter-Lane , had sent to his Brother at Lynn, for a Country Boy; I offered myself to Barnard's Brother, and he sent me up to London , and I liv'd eleven Months with Mr. Barnard, then I left him (for not being us'd to work, I could not settle myself to it) and I went down again to Lynn , but my Aunt would not receive me, so I continued about the Town for some Time, and at last I went to her for some Money to carry me to London again. Accordingly she gave me 20 s. and I came up to Town again, without knowing where to go to; but having a little Acquaintance with Mr. Walgrave, who work'd Journey-work at Mr. Barnard's while I was there; I went to him, and lived with him about eleven Months, and went of Errands for him; at last he took me 'Prentice, and I serv'd about four Years of my Time, when being either out of my Senses, or the Devil having too much Power over me, I was tempted to commit the Fact for which I dye; I attempted to know the Child three Times, and believe it was three Months between the first Time and the last. I acknowledge to have deserv'd Death, and that being brought acquainted with lewd Women by my Fellow-prentice, I got the foul Disease; and now it is my unhappy Fate to dye, I freely forgive my Master and Mistress, and all the World; and I hope my Fellow-prentice and all other young Men will take Warning by my unhappy Death, and shun the Crimes which have brought me to this shameful End.

The Account that John Marsland gave of Himself, is as follows.

MY Age is 44 Years: I was born near Aldgate , my Father was a Wholesale Cheesmonger, in Thames-street , and dealt largely. He was an Owner (in Part) of several Ships. Sir William Fazakerly , who was some Time ago, Chamberlain of London , was my Uncle by my Mother's Side. I had share of Education, and was a good Accomptant. As to my Business, - from 14 Years of Age I have used the Sea , and the first Ship I served in, was the Deal Castle , a Man of War, which cruis'd in the Channel, under the Command of Capt . John Comber ; I continu'd on Board this Ship about two Years, and then left her, and went on Board a Merchant Man, call'd the Neptune , Capt . George Cullen , (an Irish Man.) She traded mostly up the Streights, and mounted 18 Guns; but I had not been in her a Month, before we went to Yarmouth to load Herrings, and coming into the Downs, she struck upon the Goodwin Sands , and was (as we all thought) so damaged, that the Captain and all his Men forsook her; but in the Night time she drove off to Sea, and was afterwards brought into Harwich, by the Solebay Man of War. The Captain hearing a Vessel was taken up at Sea and carried in there; he went thither and claim'd her, and had her restor'd to him; after which he refitted her, and carried her to Mounts-Bay to take in Loading of Pilchards; from whence we set Sail for Zant, but in our Passage we were taken by a French Privateer, and were carry'd into Havre-de-Grace ; and as soon as we were set ashore, we were all sent Prisoners to Denain , where we lay six Months, before we were released. There was at the same time many hundreds of Englishmen, who were Prisoners in that Place, and were kept there 'till they were released upon an Exchange of Frenchmen for Englishmen.

About 3 or 4 Years ago, when the City of Dantzick was Besieged; I was on Board a Merchant-Ship, call'd the Hannah , Mr. Reid, Master, we got into the Road, and lay there a Fortnight expected the Seige to be rais'd every Day, but finding it likely to continue, we Sail'd to Riga , and took in a Loading of Masts for the King, with which we proceeded for London ; and since that time, I have made many Voyages, but mostly to Holland . I own I have been too much addicted to Gaming, and the Company of lewd Women, which Vices have contributed to my Destruction. (He here mention'd the Fact of which he was Convicted, but declar'd himself Innocent.) I repent of my Follies, and forgive all the World, and hope God will have Mercy on my Soul.

JOHN MARSLAND .

The following Letter was sent to one Madam GALLETLY.

Hon. MADAM,

YOU are not unsensible of my most melancholly Case before now; therefore I would not trouble you with a Repetition of it. To-morrow Eleven of us are to Die, and my humble. Request is, That as you have been always ready to do charitable Acts, you will of your Goodness, extend your Charity in getting my Body Buried, which will be as great an Act of Charity as you can do; tho' the Crime I am charged with is very Heineous. I hope you will have Compassion on,

Madam, Your most Obedient, Dying Servant,

JOHN MARSLAND .

Some Account of the Life, &c. of James Leonard , given by himself a few Days before he suffer'd.

I AM but a young Man, - not yet arrived to the 23d Year of my Life. I was born of Parents whose Characters are unquestionable, in Dublin , in the Kingdom of Ireland ; my Father is a Shop-keeper in good Credit and Circum

stances in that City; he took Care to send me to School, and intended to qualify me for some genteel Calling or Occupation; but before I was full ten Years of Age, I ran away from my Father and Mother, and went to an Uncle in the Country, where I continued near a Twelve Month, and from thence to some other Friends, who lived but a little Distance from my Uncle's.

After this, my Uncle and other Friends, importun'd my Father to take me Home again; but I incurr'd his Displeasure so much, that he would not see me; bu at last he was prevailed upon to put me Apprentice to one Bannister, a Shoe-maker in Dublin , whom I serv'd about three Years; but he then failing, was obliged to shun Dublin for Debt, and went to the City of Cork , and Business not answering there for him, he was obliged to travel further into the Country: Under these Circumstances, I took a liking to loose Company, and leaving my Master, I became a Drumb-beater i Cork , where I continued for some time, and then meeting with a Recruiting Serjeant, who wanted Men for Gibraltar, I agreed with him and went to Gibraltar , where I remained in the King's Service four Years, and gain'd a great deal of Money at my Trade besides. Being bred a Roman Catholick , I took as many Opportunities as I could, of going to the Spanish Chapel by stealth to hear Mass; but being at last discover'd, I was severely Punished, and soon after I diserted; I took an Opportunity of stealing from off Guard in the Night, with two other Irishmen who were on Guard also; we had consulted together before, and concerted how we should get away. We put our Design into Execution, and left Rinchees (i. e.) Fellows who are coveous of Money, and do Duty sometimes for us in our Place, to answer when the Officer come to see if we were on Duty; but as we were going off, we were discovered, and fir'd at, but none of the Shot reached us, except one, that took me in the Skirt of my Coat without doing me any further Prejudice. I had eleven Otouches about me, all which I fir'd off in my own Defence before I got safe among the Spaniards, and brought my Piece with me.

We were receiv'd in the Spanish Watch-house (as all English Diserters are) and from thence we went directly to Cadiz , and I had the Luck to get a good Place in the English Consul's Service ; as I could speak English, he employed me in going with two Spaniards on Board the Ships that came in, to bring up the Captain's to the Governors, to pay the Premium they are obliged to pay for coming into that Port; I had not been long there, before I quarrelled with a Woman and beat her, and knowing the Punishment I must undergo (for striking a Woman, is there a very great Crime, and attended with the severest Punishment) I took to my Heels, and found an Opportunity of coming to London , and I brought with me about 400 Dollars.

When I came first to Town, which is about eight or nine Months ago, I took a Room in Fleet-street , and employed a Journeyman at my Trade; but I had not lived there long, before I was robb'd of what Money I had not laid out for Leather and other Utensils in my Trade, and all my Cloths, and even the Box they were in. Then I was obliged to go to Journey-work myself. As to the Fact for which I suffer, I do declare that I never had any Acquaintance with Cavenaugh, who was Evidence against me, 'till I happen'd to come with an Acquaintance of mine to see a Debtor in Newgate, a little before Christmas last, and Cavenaugh was then a Prisoner there with one Donnelly, for forging of Passes. He knowing I was a Countryman, complain'd to me of his being in a starving Condition, and I gave him a Shilling Some time after he was discharg'd, I met him unfortunately in Long-Acre , and he invited me to drink with him (as I had been civil to him in Goal) We went into an Alehouse, and before we drank one Pot of Beer, he asked me if I would not go with him, and some more of our Countrymen upon the Scamp; I did not understand what he meant by the Scamp, but he explained himself. I told him I could get my Bread at my Trade, and would not venture my Life on any such Account, and endeavoured to shun him ever since, where ever I met him; I acknowlege my self to have been guilty of several Crimes, for which I deserve Death, as well as for deserting from my Colours.

But when this Fact was committed, I was then so ill of a Stab in my Groin, that I was not able to assist in any robbery. But God forgive him, I freely forgive him and all the World, and dye an unworthy Member of the Church of Rome.

James Leonard .

The Account of James James , otherwise Jemmy the Drummer.

I Was born in the Parish of St. Magnus London-Bridge , and am now about 19 Years old, my Father was a Waterman and Fire-man, he wore the Hand and Hand Fire-Coat for 30 Years, and he gave me a tollerable Education. I was not above 14 Years old when my Father dy'd, then my Mother bound me Prentice to one John Freeman a Corn Lighter-man at Queen-Hythe , but I had not liv'd above a Year with him before I ran away from him. Immediately after I left him, I got acquainted with James Maddock , William Hardisty , and Samuel Piper , who is now a Fellow Sufferer, and others who follow'd ill Courses. We generally frequented the Play-houses, and pick'd Gentlemen's Pockets of their Watches, and took their Swords from their Sides; sometimes when the Swords and Watches were advertised, and a good Reward offer'd, we return'd them, and got the Reward; sometimes we took the Swords to Pieces and melted down the Mounting into a Lump, and sold them to Silver-smiths; We have committed several Robberies in the Street together, as well as in the Fields. Hardesty and Piper were tried at the Old-Bailey in December 1737, on my Information, and Hardesty was convicted and executed, but Piper was acquitted; I own Piper was not concern'd in robbing Mr. Clark the Surgeon in Halborn, but he was concern'd with Hardesty and me in robbing a Gentleman in Queen-street , as he went in his Coach, and likewise in several other Robberies. He and one William King and I stopt a Brewers Clerk in a Street facing Drury-Lane , who being somewhat stubborn, Piper cut him with his Hanger, I fir'd a Pistol at him, and wounded him in the Arm and Shoulder, and I had like to have kill'd Piper too, for I shot his Hat off, but we did not get the Booty we expected; we stop'd several Coaches about St. Paul's-Church yard , Cheapside , &c. But the greatest Booty we got were the Swords, for we generally got 6 or 7 a Week, I receiv'd a Guinea and half about a Months before I was convicted from a Sword-Gutler, for a Steel mounted Sword enlay'd with Gold, which we took from a Gentleman's Side at the Play, The same Night we took 'Squire Cotton's Sword [for which I die.] Likewise another Person (who went by the Name of Zear) and Maddox and I, attack'd a Gentleman near St. Clements Church in the Strand , and took away his Sword, which I carry'd Home, and return'd to the Play, and as 'Squire Cotton was handing his Lady into the Coach, I took his Sword from his Side, and he charg'd the Linkman who light him with stealing it, and threat'ned to send him to Goal; this Linkman knew Maddock and me both, and had Maddox taken up, upon which he turn'd Evidence against me, I freely forgive him, and all the Enemies I had in my Life-time, from the bottom of my Heart, and beg all young Men will take Warning by my sad Example, and live in the Fear of God.

James James

The Account of Thomas Easter .

I AM now about 24 Years of Age, I was born of very honest Parents at Alsum in Norfolk , my Father is a Butcher by his Trade, and lives now at that Place. I was brought up to the same Business, and have work'd Journey Work at it for about 5 Years in London , but being extravagant, and getting acquainted with bad Company, I betook myself for these 12 Months last past to the Highway, and have committed several Robberies on different Roads, and in several Parts of the Country, even after I had committed the Robbery for which I die. I have been at Alsum since I committed this Fact, where I stayed four Months, and committed several Robberies in that Neighbourhood, then I came away to London again and was apprehended, and Jesse Walden , who was one of my Accomplices turn'd Evidence against me, I own I was concern'd with him in the Robbery for which I die, and in a great many more, but I never committed any except on the Highway: As the World knows too much already to my Discredit, I don't think proper to give any farther Particulars of my Life, I own I have deserv'd Death, and hope no Body will cast Reflections on my Brother or other Friends, for my ill spent Life and inominious Death. I forgive all the World, and hope for Forgiveness from Almighty God.

Thomas Easter .

A Copy of a Paper left by Thomas Easter .

Good People,

I AM now brought to this Place to suffer a shameful and ignominious Death, and of all such unhappy Persons, 'tis expected by the World they should either say something at their Death, or leave some Account behind them; and having that which more nearly concerns me, viz. the Care of my immortal Soul, I chose rather to leave these Lines behind me, than to waste my few precious Moments in talking to the Multitude. First, I declare I die a Member, tho' a very unworthy one of the Church of England as by Law establish'd, the Principles of which, my Parents took an early Care to instruct me in.

My Life being justly forfeited for my Offences, it becomes me to do all that is in the Power of such an unhappy Wretch as I am, to render my Punishment serviceable to my Country, by exhortting those who have already set their Feet in these Paths, to turn back in Time, before the Judgment of the Law hath overtaken them, and to inform such young Creatures as may be misled into a Belief, that there is something pleasant and engaging in a Life of Plunder, because those who once engage in such Ways, are seldom, if ever reclaim'd.

Such licentious Delights as Men who abandon themselves to robbing and stealing continually wallow in, are of all Things the farthest from giving any Satisfaction; judge then what Miseries are felt by those who are wretch'd, awake and restless in their Sleep who are constantly in Terror, and affrighted at the shaking of a Leaf. O! how miserable a Road is that which leadeth to Destruction; what Agonies do the Wicked feel in their Journey thro' the Paths of Death. May all shun them who read this Paper.

Those whom in the Course of a very wicked Life I have wrong'd, will I hope accept of that Punishment the Law hath justly adjug'd me to, and which I shall have suffer'd before this comes to their Hands, and not load my Memory with Reproach, or transfer them to any who survive me, and who ought not to suffer in their Character for my Crimes, as well as in their Fortune from my Extravagance and Folly. Their Charity in forgiving me will redound to themselves, and as to all who have injur'd me in my Life-time, I sincerely and unfeignedly o give them. The Mercy of God thro' Christ light on my departing Soul, and cleanse it from all Spos of Sin before I appear in the Presence of my Creator. Amen.

ADVERTISEMENT.

WHEREAS I James Riley , Watch-Maker , next the Three Tuns in Woods-Close -Clerkenwell have been afflicted for ten Years and upwards, with a Vertigo, Giddiess, and swimming in the Head; violent Headach, Mists before the Eyes at Times, Faintings and Lowness of Spiri pitations and Trembling of the Heart, which last affected the Nerves, and brought a paralitick Trembling and Weakness of the whole Body, with Convulsive Twitchings of the Arms, Legs and other Parts, and the Use of my Speech much impair'd in this Condition I applied to the Hospital and was there for several Years and all to no Purpose, and at last I was deem'd Incurable, and though a young Man, had given over I open of a Cure till hear of the great Cures performed by Dr. Henry in Fatten-Garden, next Holborn, in nervous Cases I applied to him, and He, with his nervous Medicines instantly cured of my terrible Distemper, and I am now as well as ever I was my Life of my Head, and likewise of the paralitick Trembling and Weakness of my Nerves. This I thought might be of Service to the Publick in general, to make more fully known to such whose Misfortune is to be afflicted as I was, and where they may find a speedy and safe Cure, and I am ready and willing to justify the Truth of wh is here inserted.

And whereas many afflicted with Distempers, and live at a Distance whereby arrived of the successful Use of this nervous cine, it is so ordered, as to be sent to any Distance, seven Shillings the Bottle, with Directions, which Operates all upon the Blood, Spirits and Nerves, the principle Seat or these Disorders, which at first taking, the Patient is presently relieved, by strengthning the weak and feeble Nerves, enriches the Blood, and is a Cordial to the Stomach; so as the Patient sends their dition, and how long they have been afflicted, in a ter to the Doctor, Post paid.

Note, The Doctor cures the Pa, caused Cold or Moisture, which chills and over moistens the Head and Nerves, or with a too heavy nervous Juice; and many Times when the Speech hath been taken away for some Months: and likewise the Use of one Side, Arm or Leg, and the Decay of Age, when the Solids grow Crisp and dry, and subject the Limbs and other Parts of the Body to Tremblings and Weakness for the Method I take, wonderfully ickens the Sense and Motion of the Fibres in Constitutions, overflowed with Cold, , and Defluction.

N. B. The Doctor is to be spoke with every Forenoon 'till One o'Clock.

FINIS.

