The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Speech of the Malefactor that was Executed at TYBURN, on WEDNESDAY the 26th of JULY, 1710.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday the 5th, Thursday the 6th, and Friday the 7th; and thence adjourn'd to Friday the 14th Instant; Five Persons receiv'd Sentence of Death: Four of them have obtain'd a Gracious Reprieve, which I hope they will take care to improve as they ought to do; and the other is now order'd for Execution.

On the Lord's Day the 9th Instant, I preach'd to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, from these Words, 1 Pet. 3. 11. (being part of the Epistle for the Day) Let him eschew Evil, and do Good.

Which Words having explain'd in general, and illustrated and enforc'd by several Proofs from Scripture; I then proceeded in particular to shew,

I. That we ought to eschew Evil in Thoughts, Words, and Deeds.

II. That we lie under an indispensable Obligation to do Good, (i. e. to obey GOD's Commands) and hereto apply our selves, and all the Faculties of our Souls, through the whole Course of our Lives.

III. and Lastly, That our faithful Discharge of this Negative and Positive Duty injoyn'd in the Text, viz. the abstaining from Evil, and doing Good, will conduce to our present and future Happiness; which by our Sins we do forfeit; but may, by a True and Sincere Repentance, regain.

On the Lord's Day, the 16th Instant, I preach'd again to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Mat. 5. 20. part of the Gospel for the Day; the Words being these: For I say unto you, That except your Righteousness shall exceed the Righteousness of the Scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no wise enter into the Kingdom of Heaven.

From which Words, spoken by our Blessed Saviour to his Disciples, I shew'd,

I. The great and noble Design of the Christian Religion.

II. The Difference between it and the Pharisaical.

III. The Necessity of, and Benefit accruing from, the Sincere Practise of true Religion and Virtue.

IV. and Lastly, The Inferences naturally arising from the Doctrin in the Text.

On the last Lords' Day I did again preach to them, and my Sermons, both in the Morning and Afternoon, were upon the Subject of Thanksgiving and Praise to GOD, which we ought to pay Him for all his Dispensations (whether gentle or severe) to us in this World, because his gracious Intent therein, is to make us wiser and better, and prepare us for an endless Happiness in the World to come. And I took for my Text these Words of holy David, Psal. 118. 18 & 19. The Lord hath chasten'd me sore; but he hath not given me over unto Death. Open to me the gates of Righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the Lord.

In Explanation of which Words, I spoke to these Particulars, viz.

I. That GOD, who (as David here delares) had severely corrected him, had thus dealt with him (no doubt) for these two good Ends; 1st, For the Punishment of his past Sins: And, 2dly, For the Bettering and Amendment of his future Life. The Lord, saith he in the first Clause of my Text, hath chasten'd me sore.

II. That while GOD was thus exerting his Justice upon him, He was pleas'd at the same time to remember Mercy: Which is the meaning of this second Clause. But He hath not given me over unto Death.

III. and Lastly, That therefore he was resolv'd to praise God, as in Private, so chiefly in Publick, upon these two Accounts; 1st, Because GOD had visited him with the Rod of his Correction, to awaken him to his Duty to Him, and the Consideration of his own true Interest. And, 2dly, Because He had remov'd his Strokes from him, and dealt with him as a gentle and gracious Father, who design'd, not his Destruction, but his Salvation and Reformation. All which (as being the Consequence of what is express'd immediately before) may be imply'd from this latter part of the Text. Open to me the Gates of Righteousness: I will go in to them; and I will Praise the LORD.

Upon these I enlarg'd, and concluded all my Discourses with proper Exhortations both to the Condemn'd and Repriev'd, whom I attended in the Chapel of Newgate twice every day while they were under this Condemnation: From which Four of them being (as I noted before) now discharg'd, there is but One I am here to give an Account of.

And the Person, who is thus become the melancholy Subject of this Paper, which (through Mercy) has had of late a long happy Interruption, is,

Thomas Mac-Namare , Gent . who was condemned for assaulting and robbing Mr. Edmund Halon upon the QUEEN's Highway, on the 12th Day of May last past. He denied this Fact, and said,

That the things he was charg'd to have robbed Mr. Halon of, [viz. a Gold Watch with a Silver Chain gilt, a Gold Ring set round with Diamonds and an Emerald in the middle, another Gold Ring with a Ruby, a Gold Seal, and a Silver-hilted Sword,] were borrow'd (in a friendly manner, and with a design to be return'd to the said Mr. Halon) and not at all stoln or violently taken from him. I found he was not willing to own himself guilty of such an Unchristian like Action; neither would he be perswaded to make any Confession to me, with relation to any thing concerning himself. And when I put these Questions to him, Whether he had not perswaded his Friend to rob Mr. Halon. 2. And (which was much worse) whether he was not for killing the said Mr. Halon upon the spot? He disown'd all this very faintly; saying, That Mr. Halon being his Friend's Acquaintance, certainly he would not serve him so. However, he desir'd I would not ask him any Questions (as I did) relating either to that Fact, or any other Passage of his Life. For he was not willing, neither did he think himself obliged to resolve or satisfy me therein. And this Reservedness of his and Unwillingness to open himself freely to me, was (as I perceived) First, Because he had so long flatter'd himself with the hopes of a Reprieve, that he could hardly think of Death, even when upon the very brink of it: And Secondly, Because he had a Friend, a Romish Priest (as I may well suppose) that came to him, who gave him his Directions, and strictly forbad him to take mine. What therefore I can here say further of him is, That he told me, he was about 21 years of age, come of a good Parentage, and born in the County of Clare in Ireland, and brought up in France from his Youth in the Roman Catholick Religion, which he had all-along profess'd, and in which he was resolved to die. And so it seems he did being assisted herein by his Ghostly Father, who would not leave him till he had seen him turned off at the Place of Execution, to which he was carry'd this day in a Cart, and where (according to the Duty of my Place) I attended him with the Offers of my last Service to him, and my hearty Prayers for the Everlasting Rest and Happiness of his Soul. He civilly thank'd me; but little minded what I said to him, or how I pray'd for him. He made no Speech to the Spectators, who were many; but (upon my motion to him) he allow'd me to desire their Prayers for his Departing Soul.

Then he apply'd himself to his private ones, which he (for the most part) read in a, Book he had with him; but he read and pray'd so low, as not to be heard, even by those who were nearest him. When he had done, he was ty'd to the Tree, and soon after the Cart drawing away, he was then made sensible of his great Change, and what the State of the other World is.

This is all the Account here to be given of this Dying Person, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Wednesday, July 26, 1710.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Books set forth by Paul Lorrain , Ordinary of Newgate .

A Guide to Salvation, or the Way to Eternal Bliss: Being a Collection of Meditations and Prayers, suited to the Exercise of a Devout Christian. Printed for W. Meadows at the Fann in St. Paul's Church-yard,

The Last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse . And, The Dying man's assistant. Both Printed for, and Sold by John Lawrence at the Angel in the Poultry .

A Preparation for the Sacrament: with Moral and Divine Maxims. Printed for B. Aylmer at the 3 Pidgeons in Cornhil.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , who formerly lived at the Bible in Creed-Lane , is removed to the Bible and Ball in Ave-Mary-Lane near Ludgate , where all Booksellers and others may be furnisht with Bibles and Common-Prayers of all Sorts, with Cuts or without, Ruled or Unruled, Bound in Turky Leather or Plain. Mr. Strut's Cuts Curiously Engrav'd; also other fine Cuts fitted for all Sizes and Common-Prayers. The Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. The Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and French Common-Prayers. Tate and Brady's New Version of Psalms, with the New Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Statutes at large, in Three Volumes. Washington and Wingate's Abridgment of them. The Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, in Folio and Octavo. The New Translation of AEsops Fables. Also Bp. Beveridge's Works, in 5 vol. And Dean Stanhope on the Epistles and Gospels, in 4 vol. All which Books and Cuts are likewise sold by J. Baker in Mercers-Chapel.

Lately publish'd for the Use of Schools,

Vocabularium Latiale; or, a Latin Vocabulary in two parts. The First being a Collection of the most usual and easie Latin words, whether primitive or derivative; with their signification in English, after the order of the Eight parts of Speech, giving a Specimen of each, and most naturally shewing the gender, increase, declension and motion of Nouns and Pronouns, with the Conjugation-Preterperfect Tense and Supine of Verbs both Simple and Compound. The Second, shewing the variation and declining of all the declinable parts, both regular an irregular. By Tho. Dyche , School-Master in London , Author of a new Spelling-book, entitul'd, A Guide to the English Tongue. Printed for S. Butler, at Bernard's-Inn-Gate, in Holbourn, J. Holland, near St. Paul's Church-yard, and A. Collins, at the Black-Boy in Fleet-street. Price 1 s.

Just Publish'd,

The Fourth Part of Vulgus Britannicus, or the British Hudibrass: Price 6 d. Where may be had the First and Second Parts; Being the History of the Mob, &c. in Burlesque Verse, in Ten Cantos. 1, and 2. The Disorders of the Rabble, the Folly, Hypocrisy and Moderation of the Times. 3. On the Mobs pulling down Dr. Burges's Meeting-House, and the other Disorders in the Street. 4. On the Mobs Revels round their Bonfire in Lincolns-Inn-Fields. 5. On the Burning of the Clock, and a Speech of a Holy Brother to the Poor Machine, before it was committed to the Flames. 6. Their further Mischiefs, and suppressing of the Rabble by the Guards. 7. Capt. Tom's Speech to his Dispersig Brethren. 8. The Beating up for Trainbands: The Citys Preparation for Raising the same; the Watch and Ward, with their Character and Deportment. 9. The Peoples Clamours at the Charge of Warding and Trainbanding. 10. The Battles, Disputes and Squabbles of different Parties in a Tavern-Kitchin, near the Exchange. Written by the Author of the London Spy.

The Golden Spy: or the Secret Miraculous Power and Progress of Gold, with the Clergy, Statesmen, Favourites, Courtiers, Ladies, and Gamesters of the several Courts of Europe.

The Works of T. Petronius Arbiter, in Prose and Verse. In three Parts. With a Critical Preface in Defence of the Author, and his Life and Character, Written by Mons. St. Evremont; and a Key to the Satyrs by a Person of Quality. The Second Edition, adorn'd with Cuts. To which is added, the Charms of Liberty; a Poem, by the late Duke of Devonshire.

The Third Edition of the Compleat Works of Mr. Thomas Brown , in Prose and Verse; Serious, Moral, Comical and Satyrical; with large Additions; and a Supplement never before printed. To which is prefix'd, a Character of T. Brown and his Writings. By Dr. James Drake .

Azarias. A Sermon held forth in a Quakers Meeting, immediately after Aminadab's Vision. With a Prayer for rooting out the Church and University, and blessing Tripe and Custard.

All Sold by J. Woodward in St. Christopher's Church-yard near the Royal-Exchange, and J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall.

London Printed, and are to be sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-Hall.

