THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday the 21st of April, 1714.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday; the 7th, 8th, and 9th days of April, 1714, Ten Persons, viz. Seven Men, and Three Women, that were Try'd for, and Convicted of several Capital Crimes, receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly. But one of the Women being found Pregnant, and Four of the Men having obtain'd the QUEEN's most gracious Reprieve, which I hope they will duly improve, Five only are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them; and had them brought up twice every Day to the Chapel of Newgate; where I pray'd with them, and read and expounded the Word of GOD to them; shewing them how they ought to repent of all their Sins, and make a right use both of the Time allotted 'em and the Instructions given them, in order to their learning and performing that great and important Work of Repentance, and other Duties of Religion, that so they might redeem the Time, by them formerly mispent, because now their Days were short and evil.

On the Lord's Day, the 11th instant, I preach'd to them, viz. in the Morning, upon Num. 23. the latter part of the 10 Verse, taken out of the First Lesson for that Morning, and the Words these. - Let me die the Death of the Righteous, and let my last End be like his.

These Words I first explain'd in general, shewing both the Occasion upon which, and the Person by whom, they were spoken; and how a Wicked Man, tho' he may sometimes desire to be like the Godly in a happy Death, yet such his Desire will always prove fruitless to him, who cares not to be like the Righteous in a holy Life. Which having demonstrated, I then laid down this Proposition, resulting from the Text, viz.

That to die the Death of the Righteous, and have our last End like his; (i. e. To depart out of this World in a state of Grace, and in Favour with GOD) We must live an Upright, Righteous, and Holy Life here on Earth; keeping our Conscience void of Offence toward GOD and toward Men.

To illustrate this Proposition, I shew'd how we ought to take great Care, and use our utmost Endeavours, That all our Thoughts, Words, and Actions may be according to GOD's Will, and to His Glory.

These, viz. I. Thoughts, II. Words, and III. Actions, I discours'd upon, and explain'd distinctly and seperately.

And in the Afternoon I preach'd upon this Text, John 5. 22. For the Father judges no Man; but has committed all Judgment unto the Son.

From which Words, first open'd and explicated in general, I shew'd these Four Things in particular;

I. That the Original Right and Supream Power of judging the World, belongs to GOD, and to none but GOD.

II. That no Person shall sit to judge Men at the last Day, but the Son of Man, i. e. CHRIST JESUS, who is also the Son of GOD.

III. Why, and for what Cause GOD has committed this Power and Authority of judging the World, unto His Son.

IV. and lastly, How, and in what sense we must understand those other Texts in Scripture, which tell us, That the Saints in general, and the Twelve Apostles in particular, shall judge.

Again, on the last Lord's Day, the 18th instant, I preach'd to the Condemn'd, and other Persons there present (who were many) both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon 1 Pet. 2. 11. (being part of the Epistle appointed for the Day, and also of the Second Lesson for that Evening-Service) Dearly Beloved, I beseech you, as Strangers and Pilgrims, abstain from fleshly Lusts, which war against the Soul.

In speaking to which Words, I shew'd,

I. The Import of the Apostle's Exhortation, or rather Dehortion, which he ushers in with this most pathetic, tender, affectionate, and winning Compellation, Dearly Beloved, I beseech you; and which also he perfectly levels against Fleshly Lusts, as here he calls them; meaning, 1st, Every sensual Desire, (in particular) such as, Adultery, Fornication, Lasciviousness, Uncleanness, Filthiness, Lewdness, Wantonness, and the like, which the Carnal Mind is fill'd with, and actuated by. 2dly, All Sins (in general) which are call'd the Works of the Flesh, by St. Paul; who gives us a black Catalogue of them, and also denounces the terrible Punishment due to them, Gal. 5. 19, &c. at the front whereof he places the Lusts of the Flesh, strictly so call'd.

II. The Twofold Argument, by which St. Peter enforces this his Dehortation in the Text, taken from this weighty Consideration, viz. 1st, That as Christians really are, so they should always look upon themselves to be, Pilgrims and Strangers here on Earth; and this, not only with respect to some particular Place or Country, which they may be driven to, or forc'd to live in, but even with respect to the whole World, wherein indeed they are but Sojourners and Passengers, being continually upon their Journey towards their own proper Country, which is Heaven. 2dly, That those Fleshly Lusts (whether in their more restrain'd, or larger Signification) are directly opposite to Man's greatest and most valuable Interest; in that they deprive him (and for ever shut him out) of the Kingdom of Heaven; for (as our Apostle here says) They war against the Soul. Which we may soon be sensible of, if we do but seriously consider these few Particulars.

1. That Fleshly Lusts stain and defile the Soul in its Celestial Beauty and Perfection

2. That they hinder it from its Noble and Excellent Operations.

3. That they deprive it of its Spiritual Joys and Comforts in this World, and of its most glorious and endless State of perfect Happiness in the World to come.

In all which respects Carnal and Fleshly Lusts make war against the Soul, and will most certainly (if not oppos'd in due time, and with vigour) utterly subdue it, and bring it into Eternal Ruin and Destruction.

Which to prevent, or to cure, I propos'd and offer'd,

III. and lastly, Some proper and effectual Remedies against those Fleshly Lusts, consider'd with regard to both their restrain'd and extensive Signification.

And these (as all other my Discourses before the Condemn'd Prisoners) I concluded with particular Exhortations and Admonitions suitable to them, in whom (save Eliz. Boyle ) I observ'd nothing (whether in Publick, or in Private) but what was becoming Persons under their sad Circumstances.

In my Closet-Examinations of them, they gave me the respective Accounts following.

1. Anthony Gery , or rather Gearish , which was his right Name, condemn'd for assaulting Elizabeth Whaley , and taking from her a Silver-Porringer of the value of 45 Shillings, on the 20th day of March last past. He said, he was about 20 years of age, born at Newbury in Barkshire : That his Parents removing from thence, and bringing him up to London , he was bound Apprentice (for 7 years) to a Mountebank, to learn the Arts of Dancing on the Rope, Tumbling, Vaulting , &c. That within the space of two years and a half, which he served of his Apprentiship, he grew very loose and wicked, and then ran away from his Master, being almost starved there for want of Victuals; That after this he went to Sea , and successively served on board the Royal Sovereign, the Neptune, and several other Men of War; and was once cast away; and yet did not take any notice of the Wonderful Works of God in the Deep, nor of his particular Mercy towards him in preserving his Life from so great Dangers; but instead of that, abandon'd himself to commit Iniquity more and more. He own'd he had been Guilty of several Felonies and Robberies, and was once (viz. in February 1711/1712) condemn'd to die for Robbing Mrs. Ann Noel on the Highway, the 21st day of that Month; and that when he had obtain'd the Mercy of a Free Pardon (as he did in August last) he was so far from minding it, and improving it, as he ought to have done, that he presently returned to his old wicked Trade of Thieving; and to that added the Crime, yea, the greater (tho' not in this World the more severely punish'd) Crime of Adultery. I endeavour'd to make him (and I hope he was at last made) sensible of his Sins, which he acknowledg'd to have been very heinous, and to deserve a greater Punishment than he was now to suffer for them in this Life; earnestly imploring God's Mercy, that he might avoid the Severity of his Justice in the next: And to that end desir'd my Prayers and Instructions, which he had, and which (so far as I could perceive) he endeavour'd to improve (and did improve) to the utmost of his Capacity.

2. John Johnson , or rather John Cullum , which was his right Name, condemn'd for Stealing out of the Stables of the Lord Page several Suits of Cloaths, and other things of value, on the 17th of March last. He said, he was about 25 years of age, born at Stow in Suffolk : That being brought up to no Trade, he went to Gentlemen's Service , and was for some years a Domestick in several worthy Families here in London , where he behaved himself faithfully; That afterwards he served at Sea, as a common Sailor , and at Land in the capacity of a private Centinel ; but not being contented with what he might have got by a lawful Employment, he would try his Fortune another way; which he did, and

that to his own Ruin: For having (in September last) committed a Felony, and been Burnt in the Hand and sent to the Bridewel in Clerkenwel for it, he happen'd there to be concern'd in a Riot, wherein an Officer belonging to that Place was unhappily murder'd; and for that Bloody Fact Richard Keele and William Lowther (there in Company with him) were Executed on Clerkenwel-Green the 23d of December last, while he the said John Cullum fled from Justice, and so made his Escape then. Of which Murder I now putting him in mind, in order to the bringing him to a serious Consideration, and sincere Repentance of it, He told me, That it was more his Misfortune than his Fault, that was like to have brought him into the Danger of suffering for that Murder; for he had no such Design, as to assault or hurt any Person at that time: But as to this Fact he now stood condemn'd for, he own'd it, and the Justice of the Sentence past upon him for it. He confess'd also, he had been an Ill-liver in several respects; and gave me some Proofs and Satisfaction that he was now amended and reformed, being greatly concern'd to make his Peace with God and Man, in the clearing of his Conscience, and rectifying (so far as possible) whatsoever he had done amiss. He cry'd very much, and by that and other Demonstrations of Sorrow for his Sins, I have good Hopes, that he was truly Penitent.

3. John Ralph , condemn'd for Stealing a Silver-Tankard, and other Pieces of Plate, out of the House of his Master, Henry Robins , a Victualler in the Parish of St. Clement Danes . He said, he was 21 years of age, born in the City of Durham ; That he came up young to London , and was bound Apprentice to one Mr. Armstrong, a Wine-Cooper ; That he faithfully serv'd him the whole time of his Apprentiship, and was, not long after that, hired into the Service of Mr. Robins, whom he robb'd of the Plate above mention'd, and with it went away to Plaistow in Essex ; where being apprehended, and the Plate found upon him before he could dispose of it, he was committed to Chelmsford Goal , and there remain'd a Prisoner till brought up to London for his Trial. He said, this was the first time he ever came under the Hand of Justice; but he could not say, and say truly, that it was his first Fact, nor that it might have been his last, if he had liv'd longer in the World. He seem'd to be very sensible of his Faults, and begg'd Pardon of GOD, of his Master, and of all others he had wrong'd, or endaavour'd to wrong; adding, That he never was addicted to Drunkenness, Profane Swearing, Whoring, Gaming, and such-like Debaucheries, and could not tell how he came to take up this wicked Trade of Thieving, being under no great Temptation to it; for he might have liv'd well, and in plenty, if he would have liv'd honestly; which he now acknowledg'd made his Sins so much the more heinous and inexcusable.

4. Elizabeth Boyle , alias Young , alias Betty the Cook, condemn'd upon two Indictments, viz. First, for Stealing three Suits of Head cloaths, a Bible, and other Goods, out of the House of Mr. Daniel Whitfield , on the 17th of March last: And, Secondly, for Stealing also two Gold-Rings, and other Things of Value, out of the House of Mrs. Mary Lambert , on the 23d Day of the same Month of March last. Of these two Facts she own'd her self Guilty; but under her Sentence was at first very uneasie and restless, discovering a hot, violent, and unruly Temper; tho' afterwards she grew milder, and more tractable, giving attention to my Admonitions, and shewing a great Abhorrence of her past Sins, which she confess'd were many, and so much the more heinous, by how much she had committed them wilfully, and drawn others into her own wicked Ways. She said, She was 40 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Margaret Westminster ; That she had formerly receiv'd the Punishment, or Correction, of being Burnt in the Hand, and sent to Bridewell , for a Felony she then had been found Guilty and Convicted of: That the Cause of her following such a wicked Course of Life as

she had done, was her Pride, which rais'd in her a Desire of living above her Condition and Circumstances in the World: And, to compass this, she thought Thieving was the readiest way; but therein found her self much mistaken; for, instead of growing Rich and Great, and able to live at Ease, she brought Poverty, Shame, Misery, and Ruin upon her self, by those very wicked Practices from which she expected to reap great Advantage and Satisfaction. And now she was convinc'd, that as there is no Good, but Evil, to be got in the Ways of Sin, so it had been much better for her to have kept to her former honest Employment, (who once liv'd comfortably enough in the capacity of an Under-Cook in Foreign Ambassadors Houses, and other Noble Families) than to fall from that to the base Trade of Stealing, and thereby advance her self indeed (not to Greatness, as she thought and so much aim'd at, but) to that shameful Death, which now she could not think of without Trouble and Confusion. Under this her present melancholy state I advis'd her to apply herself to GOD for Mercy and Comfort, which she might obtain if she did her utmost to clear her Conscience, to repent of all her Sins, and throughly amend her Life, before Death put an end to it in this World. As she seem'd (at last, tho' not at first) inclinable to receive and comply with this my Advice, so I doubt not but she was sensible of her great Need (and had therefore a strong Desire) of GOD's Pardon and Salvation; considering her great Change then approaching, and (as she was often told) what a dreadful Account she should be call'd to, unless she took care, before that time did come, to make her Peace with GOD and her offended Neighbour. Herein, she said, she would do what she could, and for the rest trust to GOD's Mercy.

5. Lydia alias Elizabeth Cane , alias Taylor , alias Jackson , Condemn'd for Breaking open the House of Mr. John Hatchet , and Stealing thence a Cloth Coat and other Goods, on the 21st Day of December last. She said, she was 25 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. Dunstan Stepney ; That her common Employment was to cry China-Ware about the Streets ; but at the same time confess'd, That she also had too much follow'd that of Stealing and Shoplifting, and had formerly been Whipt and Burnt in the Hand for it, and now was deservedly brought to her shameful and untimely End by it. Herein she acknowledg'd her Guilt, and the Justice of GOD and Man, and pray'd she might find Mercy in the other World, which she could not expect (and therefore quietly submitted to her deserved Punishment) in this.

At the Place of Execution, whither they were all carried in 2 Carts from Newgate this Day, I attended them for the last time. I exhorted them well to consider that within a few minutes their Souls were to appear before the Judgment-Seat of GOD, there to receive an irreversible Sentence, either of Absolution or Condemnation; and therefore, while yet in this World, it was both their great Duty and Interest earnestly to pray to GOD to pardon all their Sins, and dispose them, by his Holy Spirit, to die in his Faith, Fear, and Love, that they might have a joyful Admittance into the Kingdom of Heaven: To this blessed End I pray'd with them, and for them; I sung also a Penitential Psalm or two, in which they joyn'd with me; I made them rehearse the Apostles Creed, and wish'd that what they had now made Profession to believe concerning the Forgiveness of Sins, the Resurrection of the Body, and the Life Everlasting, they might obtain, to their Eternal Comfort. After this I withdrew from them, recommending their Souls to GOD's Infinite Mercy, and praying, That the Lord JESUS CHRIST would please to say to every one of them (as He once did to the Converted Thief on the Cross) To day shalt thou be with me in Paradise. As soon as I was gone from them, they spoke these, or Words to this purpose, to the Standers-by: Good People, take Warning by us, and avoid the Sins which have brought us to this Untimely End - &c. And let us have your Prayers for our poor Souls.

When they had done speaking to the People, and their Faces were cover'd, they apply'd themselves to GOD in their private Devotions, for which they had some small Time allow'd 'em: Then the Cart drew away, and they were all turn'd off, while each of them was earnestly calling upon GOD to have Mercy on their departing Souls, in these and the like Ejaculations: Lord, forgive me! Lord, help me, or I perish! Lord, have Mercy upon me! Lord, open unto me the Gates of Heaven! Lord, I come, I come; Lord, take me! Lord, save me! Lord Jesu, receive my Spirit!

This is all the Account to be given of them, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Note, If any be (as I hear some Persons are) offended at such Advertisements as they may meet with, and do not like, in these Papers, I must plainly tell 'em, That therein they do me great Injustice; for I have nothing to do with whatever comes in after my Name, -

Wednesday, April 21st, 1714.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new sett of Cuts, adapted to several sizes of Common-prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam; engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate ; where may be had all sorts of Bibles, either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sizes; Common-prayers in Folio, for the use of Churches; Common-prayers in 8° & 12°. A New Edition of the Book of Homilies, in folio. All neatly bound. The Duty of Man's Works of all sizes; Duty of Man in Latin; Latin and Welsh Common-prayers; Tate and Brady's new Version of Psalms, with the new Supplement: Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament, Mr. Clutterbuck on the Liturgy; The Statutes at large, in 3 vol. Bp Beveridge's Sermons and private Thoughts, &c.

Books set forth by Paul Lorrain , before he was, and since he is Ordinary of Newgate .

A Guide to Salvation; or, the Way to Eternal Bliss. Sold by William Meadows near the Royal Exchange in Cornhill . The last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse : And, the dying Man's Assistant. Both printed for, and sold by John Lawrence at the Angel in the Poultry . Moral and Divine Maxims. Minutius Felix; or, a Vindication of Christianity against Paganism. Funeral Rites of all Nations. A Discourse of Christianity, with the Character of a true Christian. A Sermon preach'd upon an especial Occasion, and dedicated to the Lord High-Treasurer of Great Britain. Publish'd by John Morphew near Stationers-hall , London .

Just Publish'd, in a neat Pocket Volume, or good Paper, and an Elzevir Letter,

THE Female Orators: Or, The Courage and Constancy of divers famous Queens and illustrious Women, set forth in their Eloquent Orations and Noble Resolutions; worthy the perusal and imitation of the Female Sex. English'd from the French Edition of M. de Scudery. Sold by T. Tebb in Little-Britain, T. Varnam & J. Osborn in Lombardstreet, N. Cliss & D. Jackson in Cheap-side, and J. Graves next White's Chocolate-house in St. James's street.

NOthing in the World so nastily made for the Body of Mankind, as Chocolate upon a Stone, not to mention the many nasty Adulteries, or what is sold about Streets, little better than Poyson; and nothing can be more fine and clean than that ground by Mr. Inwood's new Invention, bright Cast-Iron. If it lies heavy upon the Stomach, or the least Settlement be seen in Cup or Pot, the remoest Person returning it, shall have their Money again; which none will pretend to but the Author, who will continue to sell all Spanish Nut, at 3 s. 8 d. all Martinico Nut, at 3 s. 4 d. to 3 Pound a Quarter, gratis. Notwithstanding, tho' Nuts are advanc'd 8 d. a Pound. He refines Paste Chocolate, at 3 d. a Pound, and makes from the Nuts for 4 d. for Merchants and others, as fine as his own. Remov'd from Swan-yard, and taken a House in Clare-Coxrt, over-against Russel-Court in Drury-Lane. To oblige his City Customers, his best sort all Nut is deliver'd out by Mr. Orton Confectioner, at the Eagle and Child over-against Popins-alley in Fleetstreet.

On Monday next will be publish'd the 3d and last Volume of

The History of the Lives of the most noted highwaymen, Footpads, housebreakers Shoplifters, &c. of both Sexes in and about London, and other parts of Great Britain, for above fifty Years last past; wherein the Secret History of their several Robberies, Thefts, Cheats, and Murthers committed by Malefactors who were executed this last Assizes throughout the Kingdom, with their Confessions, &c. with Rules to prevent Peoples being robb'd for the future. By Capt . Alex Smith . Sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-hall, & A. Dodd without Temple-bar.

Just Publish'd the 9th Edition of

THE WHIGS Unmask'd; or, The Calves-head-Club farther expos'd; in a full Account of the Rise and Progress of that impious Society, since their horrid Rebellion in Forty-One. With all the Treasonable Ballads, sung by the villanous Whigs, as Anthems, on the 30 of January. Much enlarg'd by an impartial Account of all the Plots and Conspiracies form'd by the Low-Church-Faction, against the Queen and present Ministry. With Animadversions in Prose and Verse. Adorn'd with curious Cuts, by the best Hands.

A Water that perfectly cures the Ich, or any Itching Humour in a few Days, without necessity of Purging, or the dangerous use of Mercury, as will be attested by several Persons of sufficient Credit, pr. 1 s. 6 d. the Bottle. Prepar'd by A. Downing, Chymist, at the Golden-ball and Crown in Hand Alley without Bishopsgate. Also a curious Preparation for the Teeth and Gums, which fasten loose Teeth, cures the Scurvy in them, and prevents their rotting, price 2 s. A Remedy for the Tooth-ach, the most general for giving effectual Ease of any yet known, price 1 s. Likewise the true Essential Spirits of Scurvy-grass, Purging and Plain, and the Spirits of Ground Ivy, at 8 d. a Bottle.

On Saturday will be Publish'd,

MEmoirs of the Lives, Intreagues, and Comical Adventures of the most famous Gamesters, and celebrated Sharpers in the Reigns of K. Charles the 2d, K. James the 2d, K. William, and Q. Anne, wherein is contain'd the secret History of Gaming, in discovering all the most sharping Tricks and Cheats us'd at Ricquet, Glerk, Lantaloe, Bankafalet, Bassit, Primerl, Cillbige, Verquere, Ticktack, and all the English, French, Spanish, and Dutch Games, play'd with Cards, Dice, or Tables. The Whole calculated for the Meridians of London, Bath, Tunbridge, and the Groom-Porters, and may serve for all other Places in Great Britain, without any Errors at all. By Theophilus Lucas , Esq ; Printed by Jonas Browne , without Temple-bar , and Ferdinando Burleigh , in Amen-Corner .

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall.

