THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS Who were Executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 8th of November.

BEING THE FIFTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir JOHN BARNARD ,

Number V. For the said Year. 1738

LONDON :

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXVIII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall, in the Old Baily , in September last, Eight Men, viz. Joseph Upton , Henry Fluellin , Charles Goulding , Thomas Raby , Dean Bryant , Edward Barcock , Jonathan Thomas , George Whalley , and one Woman, viz. * Sarah Woodcock , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death. And,

At the Sessions held at the same Place in October, Four Men, viz Thomas Jones , alias Brown , John Machell , John Fosset , alias Powell , and William Sylvester , were likewise capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

They were all exhorted to pray earnestly for the Grace of God, and that they might be renewed in the Spirit of their Minds; and by sincere Repentance might be enabled, with full Purpose of Heart, to turn to God in Christ, and save their Souls from everlasting Misery.

Two of them having been convicted of murdering their own Wives, I exposed to them the great Evil of their most horrid Sin, and endeavoured to convince them, that Murder is the highest Degree of Wrong we can do to our Neighbours; and that the Heinousness of it might be seen by the Consequence of the first Act of this Kind that ever was committed; Abel's Blood crieth from the Earth, God tells Gain; Gen. iv. 10. yea, the Guilt of this Sin is such, that it leaves a Stain even upon the Land where it is committed, such as is not to be wash'd out, but by the Blood of the Murderer, as appears, Deut. xix. 12, 13. In the Case of wilful Murder, no Refuge was allow'd but such a one was to be taken thence, and delivered up to Justice, Exod xxi. 14. Thou shalt take him from my Altar, that he may die; and it, is our Saviour tells us, Matt. v. 22. Hell-Fire he Portion of him that shall but call his Brother Fool, what Degree of those Burnings can we think proportionable to this so much greater Injury?

I observ'd to the others, that Theft and Robbery is a Crime which makes Men odious to God, and unfit for human Society; and that nothing but Repentance and Reformation, could prevent them from suffering for it hereafter.

They were put in Mind of their renewing their Baptismal Covenant by receiving the Sacrament of the Lord's-Supper, and they were instructed in the Nature of this Sacrament.

They attended in Chapel, when Health allowed them, and were attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, behaving devoutly to Appearance, and some of them, sometimes wept and lamented, only John Machell was so much indisposed, that he never was able to come up to Chapel, but was confined to his Cell in a most miserable and poor Condition. When I visited him, he declared himself penitent, and did not deny his Crime.

* Sarah Woodcock was, by a Jury of Matrons, found with quick Child, upon which her Execution was respited.

Jonathan Thomas was one of the People called Quakers, and though he said (at first) he believed he might come up to Prayers, yet afterwards, notwithstanding all I could say to him, he would by no Means be persuaded to come to Chapel, being set against the Ministry, and all publick Ordinances of the Christian Church.

Upon Thursday the 2d of Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Twelve Men lying under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate, when all of them, viz. Joseph Upton , Jonathan Thomas , George Whalley , Henry Fluellin , Charles Goulding , Thomas Raby , Dean Bryant , Edward Barcock , Thomas Jones , alias Brown , John Machell , John Fosset , otherwise Powell , and William Sylvester , were ordered for Execution.

George Whalley , of St. Michael, Crooked Lane , was indicted for the Murder of Hannah his Wife , by giving her with a Clasp Knife a mortal Wound on the left Side of the Head, of the Length of one Inch and a half, and of the Depth of one Inch, of which she languished from the Tenth of June, to the Sixth of July, and then died.

1. George Whalley , 60 Years of Age, of honest Parents; when of Age he was put to a Carpenter , with whom he served out his Time honestly and with Approbation, and afterwards lived well for some Years by his Business, marrying a Wife, with whom he lived many Years in an honest and creditable Way, in the Parish of Cripplegate ; but she dying, he got acquainted with the Woman that was murder'd by him; they married, and liv'd in Thames-street , near the Bridge, but pursuing different Interests, they could not agree; he having saved a little Money, was not willing to let her spend it, and she refused to let him know how she disposed of what she had from him. This (as he alledg'd) was the only Occasion of all the Misfortunes which befell both him and his Wife, and was the Cause of the execrable Murder of the one, and disgraceful End of the other. He complained of some People, particularly some Women who were intimate with his Wife, of whom he did not speak well, and who too much fomented and forwarded their Dissentions. He complained that she provoked him to such a Degree, that he frequently gave her Blows, for which he was once imprisoned in Woodstreet-Compter ; where he was press'd, to give her Friend a 50 Pound Bond, which he would not consent to, but at length he gave a 10 l. Bond, and all his Plate, before he could get out of Prison; and these Secutities were all given to the Wife. Mr. Whalley was no sooner at Freedom, but Quarrels began again, and she (as he said) still aggravated him more and more, and after many Disputes, which were always attended with Blows, on the 10th of June last, he came Home in a violent Passion, and with a strong clasp Knife, he stabbed her in the Shoulders, in the Throat, under the left Ear, and cut her along the Breast, and the Effusion of Blood was so great, that it occasioned her Death, and on the 6th of July she expired. Whalley was a passionate, fiery Man, and it may be presumed the Wife had ill Advice, there having been some Lodgers and others who intermeddled too much in their private Affaires, and secreted some of his Goods. Two or three Persons came several Times to Newgate , pressing him to make some Declaration contrary to this, which he refused to do, insisting upon the plain Truth, and not denying the Murder in its aggravating Circumstances, though he still alledged that great Provocations were given him. At first he talked much of the Manifestations of God's Love to his Soul, but afterwards he became much more remiss and careless; I endeavoured to convince him of the Necessity of trusting only in God, submitting to his holy Will, and waiting for his Salvation thro' Christ. Upon this he promised to be more careful, and to avoid falling into Fits of Passion, which some who pretended to visit him, were continually stiring up in him, by upbraiding and reproaching him. He owned he was a great Sinner, and he often wept like a Child. After the Dead-Warrant came out, he seemed more affected, and less concerned about the World. He declared his Faith in Christ, that he truly repented of all his Sins, and heartily forgave all the World.

Dean Bryant , of St. Botolph, Aldgate , was indicted for the Murder of Mary his Wife , by giving her (with a clasp Knife) on the left Part of the Back, near the left Hip, a mortal Wound, of the Breadth of one Inch, and Depth of one Inch, of which Wound she instantly died. July the 7th.

2. Dean Bryant , 38 Years of Age, born at Greys in Essex , of honest Parents; he served his Apprenticeship at Sea , and sailed afterwards in King's Ships, and several Merchant-Men, to several Parts of the World, in all which Voyages he behaved well, and was respected by others. Thirteen Years ago he married the unfortunate Woman whom he murdered, and had some Children by her, who are all dead. He lived for some Years very amicably with her, but of late

he addicted himself to the Company of lewd Women, and drinking excessively was likewise a Vice from which he could not abstain.

It was reported, that he had kept Company with another Woman who had a Husband, and a Captain of a Ship who came to visit him, ask'd if the Report was true? he absolutely deny'd it, but spoke bitterly and passionately of the Woman's Husband, and call'd him Names.

He expected to have been clear'd upon his Tryal for want of positive Proof, but the Circumstances were so strong, that the Jury, without much hesitation, found him Guilty. He was not so free in his Confessions as he ought to have been, neither was his Heart duly mollify'd for his ying Sin. He always behav'd civilly, and attended constantly in Chappel, complying with the Worship and Exhortations, while he was in any State of Health; but most of the Time he was sick, and confin'd to his Bed in the Cell, and tho' he seem'd to be terribly troubled in his Conscience, yet he was very sparing in his Confessions. When I visited him, he was very desirous of, and attentive to Prayers, and heartily thank'd and blest me for them. He profest Penitence, believ'd in Christ, and dy'd in Peace with all Men.

John Slade , and Henry Fluellin , of St. Clement's-Danes , in the Strand , were indicted for assaulting Henry Davis , in the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Hat, value 2 s. a Key, value 1 d. a Half Guinea, and 7 s in Silver, July 9. Slade acquitted, Fluellin guilty, Death.

3. Henry Fluellin , Twenty-one Years of Age, born in the Country of honest Parents; he serv'd among others, an Attorney in Town, but never minded his Master or his Business, being of a roving, unsettled Disposition. All his Friends and Acquaintance were ashamed of him, and he was such an abandon'd irreclaimable Wretch, that they thought it to no purpose to trouble themselves about him. He married a Creature with whom he got acquainted at a House of resort for such Persons; she waited upon him in Prison, and exclaim'd against his Mother for not calling upon him above once or twice, and for not supplying him with what he wanted. He reflected upon the Evidence, and was not willing to own the Truth, as it was sworn against him. The Letter he sent to his Prosecutor, he said, was only to please him, because he promis'd to endeavour to do him a Favour. He always attended in Chappel, and behav'd well, being attentive both to Prayers and Instructions. He declared his Faith in Christ, that he repented of all, especially the heinous Sins of his Life, and dy'd in Peace with all the World.

Thomas Raby , was indicted for assaulting William Backhouse , on the King's Highway, in the Parish of South Mims , putting him in Fear, and taking from him 8 Shillings in Money, June 22.

4. Thomas Raby , 24 Years of Age, of honest Parents, in the Parish of St. James Clerkenwell , who put him Apprentice to a Barber and Perriwig-Maker in the City . His Father keeping a Publick House in that Parish, and having a general Acquaintance, when his Time was expired, he set him up at Clerkenwell-Green , where he might hate done well. He endeavour'd to make me believe that he had always been a very sober Person, that he hated bad Company, and closely attended his Business; and that he only rode out to take the Air that Afternoon (June 22) and happen'd to be taken up by way of mistake; adding, that he never robb'd any one of a Farthing in his Life, but always went to Church when his Business would permit him. He always behav'd well, and went bitterly when he thought of his past wicked Life. Notwithstanding the fine Account he gave of himself, 'tis certain, he was once admitted an Evidence, and some Time after, he himself was try'd for a Robbery on the Highway, and had the good Luck to be acquitted. Upon Sunday, October the 15th, upon his earnest Desire, with Tears in his Eyes, pretending a deep Penitence and contrition, he received the Sacrament privately, and then being asked if he still deny'd the Fact? he own'd that he was concern'd in the Fact for which was to suffer, and that he threaten'd to fire his Pistol at the People in the Waggon; but he ledged that he saw none of the Money or Goods, his Partner escaping with what Booty they had, and himself endeavouring to get away, his Horse did not answer his Expectations, nor could he escape his Pursuers; upon which (he own'd) he held out the Pistol, and swore he would blow out their Brains; but they not fearing his Threats, beat him off his Horse, upon which he threw his Pistol over the Hedge, which one of the Pursuers took up and shewed in Court. Besides this, he acknowledged he had committed many other Thefts and Robberies, and that he associated with a Gang of Highwaymen. He was very penitent, and lamented much his having kept Company with lewd Women. He declared his Faith in Christ, and that he was sorry for the many and scandalous Sins of his Life; and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Charles Goulding , of Hampstead , was indicted for breaking and entering the House of Jane Maria Ward , about twelve at Night, and stealing Goods to a considerable Value, April 23.

5. He was twenty-four Years of Age, born at Hampstead , of honest Parents, his Father a Blacksmith , bred him to his own Business, and he serv'd his Time out honestly, and lived well afterwards by his Business. He owned the Fact he sufferr'd for, and many other small Robberies, but none excepting this, of any Moment. His Friends would have sent him Abroad, that he might have avoided this Prosecution; but he was unwilling to leave England , so went to Windsor , where he was sound and taken. During his Confinement under Sentence, he behaved very well, making strong Resolutions of new Obedience if he had been spared, and confessed that his covetous Temper, prompted him to his Ruin. He appeared truly Penitent to the last; he hoped for Salvation by the Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ, and forgave all Men, as he epected forgiveness from God.

Edward Barcock , of St. Martin's in the Fields , was indicted for assaulting Stephen Boughton , Esq ; on the King's Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him a Hat, value 5 s. Aug. 10.

6. He was 38 Years of Age, born of honest, re able Parents; he served his Time to a Mercer , and kept Shop for some Years for himself; but being too profuse, and neglecting his Business, for idle Diversions, he was obliged to enlist himself in a Regiment of Light-Horse , in which he continu'd a Year or two, and then got a Discharge, and entered himself in the Foot-Guards . He was two or three Times drumm'd out of the Regiment (he said) for desertion, but others alledged for much viler Practices. He was Heir to a good Estate, but his bad Character occasioned his being out off with Twenty Pounds per Annum during his Life, and even this Allowance, he enjoyed but a very short Time. As to the Robbery, he was convicted of, he would not acknowledge it, in all its Circumstances. He had been a very debauch'd Man, but he blessed God, that the dismal Cells of Newgate had brought him to a Sense of his Sins, and said, he hoped God had intentions of Love to his Soul, and that his Afflictions would be the means of drawing him to God. He declared his Faith in Christ, as the only Saviour of Sinners; that he truly repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World. A little before his Death, he appeared very uneasy in his Mind. A few Days before he died, his Prosecutor coming to see him, it put him very much out of Humour.

Joseph Upton , of St. Botolph Bishopsgate , was indicted for breaking and entering the House of Robert Allen , between the Hours of one and two in the Night, with Intent to steal the Money and Goods of the said Allen, July 12.

7. He was 35 Years of Age, of honest Parents, in the Parish of St. Andrews Holborn ; his Father bred him to his own Business of a Bricklayer , and when out of his Time, he never wanted employment. He married a Wife, with whom he liv'd several Years in tollerable good Circumstances; but at last, his ill Conduct reduced them to want. He own'd he intended to plunder Mr. House, if he had not been prevented, and said it was well he was taken, for he designed to have join'd Gangs of Street-robbers and House-breakers; but by this means, he was brought to a Sense of, and repentance for his Sins, and, as in Charity may be thought, obtained the Salvation of his Soul.

Jonathan Thomas , of London , was indicted for deceitfully and traitorously diminishing and frlig nine Pieces of Gold called Guineas, against the Form of the Statute, &c.

8. He was Forty-two Years of Age, of honest respected Parents; in the City of Dublin ; his Father and Mother were Quakers, and bred him in that Profession. For some Time he follow'd Merchandizing , and after he had been some Years, in Business, he marry'd a Quaker, who brought him 2000 Pounds Fortune; with this, and what he had of his own, he traded from Dublin to Foreign Parts for several Years; but by losses, and disappointments he was reduc'd, and then he went Supercargo in a Ship from Dublin to Rotterdam , where finding there would be a Loss upon the Voyage, and his Affairs being in confusion, he left the Ship, and returned to Dublin without it. From Dublin he came to London , upon a Statute of Bankruptcy being taken out against him there. After this, he carry'd on a private Trade of selling Spirituous Liquors . His Wife he left at Dublin, where she now lives upon a Jointure of 100 l. per Annum. I pressed him to come to Chappel, but he alledged there was no such Thing as any Gospel-ministry, and that all the followers of Jesus were equally inspired by the Holy Ghost to perform sacred Functions; I endeavour'd to convince him of his Mistake, telling him; the People called Quakers, were but a modern Sect, which sprung up here, in the Times of our Anarchy and Confusion, and it's Rise was owing to designing Men,

who introduced it to foment the Distractions of those Times. I endeavour'd to bring him into the Communion of the Church, but he continued resolute in his own Way of thinking; and after many Essays, finding him fixed in his Opinion, I left him to his own Way: He neither confess'd nor deny'd the Crime was guilty of. A great many of the Quakers profession came to visit him, and it is to be feared, they put him too much in hopes of Life, which did him no good. His Maid constantly attended him in the Day-time, and he behaved always with abundance of Civility and good Manners: He declared that he believed in God the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, the Satisfaction of Christ, and that the Scriptures of the Old and New Testaments were divinely inspired Writings, necessary for the Rule of Life and Manners, &c. that he forgave every Body, and sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died in Communion with the Quakers.

John Machell , and Richard Wilkinson , were indicted for stealing two black Mares, value 20 l. the Goods of John Lucas , September 16. Wilkinson acquitted, Machell guilty Death.

9. John Machell , 24 Years of Age, born of honest Parents, within a Mile of the City of York ; when he was grown up, he followed the Business of a House Carpenter ; but of late, he found a readier way to get Money than by following his Trade. He was taken up once before for Horsestealing, and was kept a long Time in New-Prison ; for this Fact, he was tried and acquitted the Sessions before the last.

While he was under Sentence, he was very Sick, and not able to rise from his Bed in the Cell, in a poor miserable Condition, without any one to help him, and destitute of all Support. When I visited him, he willingly comply'd with Prayers, and had more knowledge of Religion, than many of these unfortunate Creatures; but was in such a pityful Condition, that scarce any body could enter his Cell, the Smell and the Nastiness about him was so miserable He acknowledg'd the Justness of his Sentence according to Law, and that he deservedly suffer'd for the irregularities of a sinful Life. He believ'd in Christ, repented of his Sins, and dyed in Peace with all Men.

John Fosset , alias Powell , and William Sylvester , of St. Georges , Middlesex , were indicted for assaulting Jade Hussey , in the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, &c. and taking from her a silver Thimble, value 1 s. and eight Pence in Money, September 5.

They were a second Time indicted for assaulting Henry Southall , on the King's Highway, &c. and taking from him six Shillings in Money, September 5.

10. John Fosset , 29 Years of Age, his Father dying and leaving him young, the Mother, (a labouring Woman) allow'd him too much Freedom, and did not restrain him from following his own Inclinations, which were the means by which he was brought to destruction. He had been bound Apprentice to a Weaver , but being unwilling to be confin'd, he took to Courses which subjected, him to future Miseries. He married a Wife, and, if he had been careful, they might have been in, no necessity of committing irregularities for want of Bread. He had been often in Prison, and had a very bad Character; and he own'd he was guilty of petty Thiefts, and innumerable Cheats in the way of Money-dropping. As to the Fact he was convicted of, he would not own it in all its Circumstances. He blamed a certain Man mightily, for the Prosecution against him; but it is common for such Persons to be displeased with all them who are for suppressing Vice. He own'd himself, to have been a very vicious young Man, and that it was just with God that this Punishment had befallen him. He had used the Sea for three or four Years, but was soon tired with that way of Life. He was very ignorant of religious Matters, and could hardly read; but hoped for Salvation from God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ, and said he repented of all his Sins, and forgave all the World.

11. William Sylvester , 24 Years of Age, convicted on the same Indictment with the preceeding Fosset, he was born in Blackman's Street , Southwark he was put out Apprentice to a Cooper , and served out his Time honestly; afterwards he liv'd by his Business, and having the Character of an honest Man, he was seldom out of Business; he deny'd, his being much acquainted with Fosset, and said he only happen'd to be in the same Alehouse with Fosset, so was taken up with him; and indeed he did not seem to have been so wicked, as some of the rest. Most of the Time that he was under Sentence, he was very Sick, and confined to his Bed in the Cell; when I visited him, he seemed to be very earnest in his Devotion, and professed a deep Penitence, and acknowledged himself in have been guilty of small Thefts; when he was able, he came to Chappel, and behav'd (to appearance) religiously. He hoped for Salvation by the Mercy of God in Christ, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

THEY all appeared with great Devotion and Seriousness. Mr. Thomas was drawn in a Hurdle by six Horses, the rest of them came up three in three Carts, and Mr. Whalley in a Cart by himself. Jonathan Thomas was very attentive to Prayers, but did not sing Psalms as the rest did, it not being agreeable to the Custom used by his Friends. When I spoke to him in Chappel, praying for his happy Passage out of this World, he bow'd low and thank'd me. This was the only Time he came to Prayers in Chappel; when I spoke to him under the Tree, he said, he was very careful in securing to himself an Interest in God and Christ, and doubted not of his being Happy. I observed him shed Tears, and wipe them away with his Handkerchief. Joseph Upton desired me to acquaint Mr. Allen, whom he had intended to rob, that one whom they suspected to be a Partner with him in his intended robbery of Mr. Allen, was innocent of any such Intention, and he own'd himself to be the only Contriver and Executor of the Fact. Dean Bryant had no more to add, only he hoped for Mercy from God, and Wept; and though he would not confess the Particulars of the Murther, yet as I am informed, by a Person of Credit, he told a Neighbour of his, that he acknowledg'd the Night the Murther happened, he came in, and threw his Wife thrice about the Floor, and dasht her against a Chest, and wounding her in the Head, so that she bled very much, then he stabb'd her in the Back with a Knife, and fearing Discovery by her heavy Sighs and Groans, he lay upon her 'till she expir'd. Mr. Whalley wept and forgave every body. Thomas Raby own'd the Robbery he died for, and many others. Edward Barcock appear'd very penitent, exprest his assurance of Heaven, and spoke some Things which might be disagreeable to some Persons. Henry Fluellin also utterr'd Reflexions upon some People. These two last mention'd, had white Cockades in their Hats, in token of their Triumph over the World. Charles Goulding acknowledg'd the Burglary and Robbery he died for. John Machell was Sick, not able to stand, nor fully in his Senses. The other two adher'd to their former Confessions. They went off the Stage crying to God to have Mercy upon them, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

N. B. Thomas Jones , after they left the Chappel, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve, for fourteen Days.

This is all the Account, given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary and Chaplain of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

The following Account of his Life was deliver'd by GEORGE WHALLEY , for Publication.

I AM now at this Time of my unhappy Confinement about Threescore Years of Age. I was born in the Parish of St. Giles's, Cripplegate , my Father was a Fellowship Porter, and my Mother kept a Cooks Shop. At a proper Age I was put 'Prentice to one Richard Norbut a Joiner in Grubstreet , but he failing before my Time was expir'd, I was turn'd over to one Mr. Dewey in Wych street by Temple-Bar , of the same Business, and with him I serv'd out the remaining Part of my Time.

Then I work'd as a Journeyman, with a Joiner over-against the Golden-Hind in Red-Cross-street , till he could employ me no longer, and my first Master Norbut being set up again, I had Employment with him, and work'd with him till he died.

Soon after his Death, I perceived my Mistress and her Foreman to live in an ugly Manner together, (for they made one Bed serve them both) so I would Work with her no longer. I was not long out of Business, for one Mr. Carey at the Flying-Horse in Grub street , seeing me an industrious saving Fellow, he got me my Freedom, and then I work'd for the Shops, and began to get a little Money beforehand, and some handsome Furniture about me.

In the Year 1703 I was recommended to my first Wife, - she was a good Woman indeed, - Ah! if she had been alive I had not been in all this Trouble! - I marry'd her in November in the same Year, on a Saturday, the Day after the Wind blew so high. She was then a Gold and Silver Bone-lace maker, and liv'd at Mr. Davenport's near Clerks-Hall, in Gutter-lane, where she kept a great many Hands at Work. After we were marry'd, we took a House in Barbican of 20 l. a Year, where my dear Wife and I liv'd very comfortably together for 7 Years; I follow'd my Business, she sold Linnen-Drapery Goods, and we got Money together.

But about the Time that the Noise was in London concerning the French Prophets, Trade fell off, and the Rent of our House being pretty large, we agreed to leave it, and the George Ale house in

Whitecross street being to let, ready fitted up, my Wife perswaded me to try what we cou'd do in it; we took it accordingly; but neither she nor I liking that Way of Life we left it about a Year afterward, and took a House in Fore street ; where I follow'd Cabinet-making and the Joiner 's Business. Here we liv'd very agreeably 11 or 12 Years, and got Money, so were well respected by all that knew us.

After this I purchased a Piece of Ground, in Butler's-Alley , near Ropemakers-Alley in Grub-street , of one Mr. Freeman, who was then Curate (I think) of St. Butolph without Aldersgate, on a Building Lease for 61 Years, and was to pay him 4 l. a Year Ground Rent. Upon this Spot I built me a convenient House, a Ware-house, and a Work-Shop, which I liv'd in 11 Years; but then it pleased God that my poor Wife and I were taken ill together, and were both of us expected to die together, but GOD took her and left me!

When I was recover'd, I went to see after a little Money that a young Woman own'd me in Cannon-street . When I got up into her Room, I saw a Leg of Mutton upon a String at the Fire, and this Woman - who afterwards was my 2d Wife, was junketting with the other, and they were drinking Gin and Brandy and such Stuff. I thought she look'd like a good clever sort of a Woman, so I drank a Glass of Brandy with them, and staid to Dinner.

After Dinner this Woman, (who was then a Stranger to me) said, come Sir, I understand you are a Widower, - I am a Widow, - I'll spend my Shilling, you shall spend yours, and we'll have a Bottle of Wine together. I lik'd the Looks of her, and had a great Mind to be acquainted with her, so we had a Bottle of Wine, and I staid all the Afternoon with her. When Night came I went Home; but having asked her where she liv'd, I could not be easy till I went to see her, which I did the next Morning; so it was, and I could not help it! - I made my Addresses to her, she very readily consented, and we were marry'd about 4 Year ago at the Chapple belonging to the Haberdashers Alm-Houses at Hoxton , and one of the Pensioners gave us a Wedding Dinner in his Room.

At Night I went Home with her to her Room, and liv'd with her in a House full of Lodgers; among the rest there was one C - k a Dyers Wife, and it being the Time that Gin was very much in Vogue, I soon found that this G - k's Wife and my new Wife would get quite drunk together 3 or 4 Times in the Day. So! thought I, I have made a pretty Spot o'Work on't! My new Wife will soon make an End of all that my poor old Wife and I have work'd for! I am certainly ruin'd, and must come to the Parish in my old Age! Lord! thinks I, what must I do now! I thought I would talk to her, and accordingly I took an Opportunity to tell her, that the Way she was going would end in the Ruin of us both. But instead of hearing what I had to say, she immediately calls her Companion C - k, and they both fel a raving against me, and telling me how I must behave to my Wife. Heyday! says I, I thought I had marry'd but one Wife, but to my great Surprize I find I am to be perswaded that I have marry'd two. Pray Madam, (says I to C - k) what Business have you with my Wife! Be gone about your Business! My new Who would not part with her, but sided with her, which provok'd me so highly, that I resolved to get away from them, and in a very little Time I set out for Gravesend; 'twas a very raiy Day, and the Wind blew very hard, but I resolved to be gone, and accordingly I went thither in the This Boat, thro' all the bad Weather.

From Gravesend I walk'd to Rochester , and put up at the White-Swan near Rochester-Bridge , where I met an Acquaintance, with whom I drank a Mug of Beer, and eat some Bread and Cheese. After I had rested myself a little, (for I am very old, and can't travel far without growing weary,) I made the best of my Way to Chatham , where I staid a Month, paying so much a Week for my Lodging - my Victuals I found myself; because that was cheaper than boarding at any House.

While I was at Chatham I went to see the King's-Yard , and I heartily wish'd I could but get any Employment there, whereby I might maintain myself; - but it was in vain, and I grew weary of living upon the Spend, and doing nothing to get a Penny; so I came Home again to my Wife; but I soon wish'd myself at Chatham again, and there being a young Man (one Mr. Greenaway) in the House as a Lodger, who belong'd to the Navy-Office, I could not help wishing to him that I had any Place in the King's-Yard, he said he would try what he could do for me, and he spoke to Admiral Saunders, and got me an Order from him to be admitted into Dford-Yard. When I came there, the Gentlemen that belong'd to the Yard said, I was too old to do any Work; but on my telling them I would do any Thing in the World that I was able to do,

they told me I should be admitted, because I had brought the Admiral's Letter. So I went to work in the Yard, and boarded at a House in the Town for 5 s. a Week. I had not been here long, before my Wife came to see me; and I treated her at the House of the Foreman of the Joiner's Crew; at Night she went Home to her Lodging in Thames-street , and I promised to come Home to her every Saturday Night, which I accordingly did all the Time I work'd in Deptford yard.

To save Expence, I used to beg Leave on Saturday Nights to be discharged half an Hour before the usual Time of leaving Work, that I might have Time to walk Home; tho' when I got Home, I was always so tired that I was not able to stir.

The first Night I came Home, I found my Wife and her Companion C - k dressed up like two Ladies, just going out; O! thinks I, this never was in my former Wife's Days! - But I let it pass on, and walk'd back to Deptford the next Day, that I might be ready to go to my Work on Monday Morning. And,

The next Saturday Night I came Home again, and found her and C - k equipp'd as before; then I thought a little more about it, I thought 'twas very queer, and that they must have some Business more than ordinary together; but 'twas in vain to make any Bustle about it, so I went again the next Day to my Work, and after I had been some Time there, I was taken very ill, and was brought Home. Then I thought it high Time to enquire after my Money, for my Wife had it in her keeping, and with some Difficulty I got what was left, but there was so much of it gone, that I told her I would go no more to Work, it signify'd nothing for me to work hard, and live hard, to save a Penny, if she must squander it away faster than I got it.

My resolving to take Care of what was left, made her and her Companions very angry with me; and because I would not suffer her to wrong me again, she got a Warrant for me, and carry'd me before the late Sir Richard Brocas , from whence I must have been sent to the Compter if two Gentlemen at the Bull head Ale house had not bail'd me. They perswaded my Wife to make up this Quarrel, but one Mrs. B - r, who lives in Miles's Lane, (and who has been the Ruin of us both) came, and pull'd her away from us, and prevented the Matter from being made an End of; but being bail'd, I went Home, and talked to my Wife, asking her what Good she could expect from putting me to so much Trouble and Expence? All I could get from her was hard Names, and more Provocation.

Some Time after this, I was speaking to her about the Lodgers that were in the House, and a Fellow over hearing me, came into my Room and abused me very much, my Wife encouraged him, and took his Part all the while, which vex'd me very much, and alarm'd the rest of the Lodgers. I found myself in a violent Passion, so I got away from them, and went to a neighbouring House, where I staid till my Passion was over; then I came out, intending to go Home to Bed, but one Mr Smith, who lives at Mr. Dash's the Tobacco Merchant, met me, and told me, there was something more than ordinary adoing at my House, and advised me not to go Home. I said I was resolved to go Home to Bed, and accordingly went up Stairs; I found Mrs. B - r, the Constable and 2 Watchmen on the Top of the Stairs, they refused to let me go into my own Apartment, and B - r cry'd out, Who see him strike his Wife? I did, said one, and I did, said another; upon which a Baker that lodged in the House asked the Constable if he would order him to take Charge of me? The Constable said yes, he did, upon which he took hold of my Arm, and whirl'd me down 3 or 4 Stairs, and I fell with my Back against the Edge of the Stairs, with such Violence, that I thought I had been lam'd. In the Hurry I felt in my Pocket for my Penknife, and endeavoured to prick him with it, and I did cut thro' his Great Coat; but they over power'd me, and carry'd me to the Compter, and before I could make up this Matter, it cost me upwards of 40 l.

After this I thought it my best Way to got into the Country, and I went to Islington , and boarded a Month or 6 Weeks at the Peacock , at 2 s. a Week. From thence I went to Endfield , and at the Two Brewers I agreed to board at 10 l a Year; but while I was there, I thought it was strange living without my Wife, so I sent her Word where I was, and that I should be glad to see her, and would bear her Charges backward and forward. She came, and staid with me a Day or two, then she return'd to London . After this, I sent for her again, and she came to see me, and I went to London with her, telling her I did not love to live separately, and that she and I might live together as cheap as I could live by myself, if she was frugal; - Do, (says I) my Dear, let us try. But when I came Home, she could not be quiet nor content, so I went to live with a Relation at Agnes la clear near Hoxton ; here I liv'd a pretty while, but not being easy, I went Home again, and she began to quarrel again; and now I come

to the fatal Action which has brought me in my old Age to this Distress.

While I was at Home this last Time, there was one Jackson, a Man that works at Smarts-Key, who lodged in the House, he gave a Dinner on his Child's Birth-Day, and among others, I and my Wife were invited, and were treated with Brandy, &c. a very little Matter affects my Head, - how it was I don't know, - but I was vexed, and had Words with my Wife. Upon this, Jackson, a great, strong raw boned Fellow, wrung me by the Wrists, as tho' he would have wrung me to Pieces, and asked me what Business I had to strike my Wife? In the Bustle, my Head was broke in 3 Places, and my Flesh was bit in 2 or 3 more yet in this Condition they carry'd me before a Magistrate, who sent me to the Compter.

After I had been kept 3 Weeks in the Compter, I was discharg'd and went Home. I told her when I got Home, that neither she nor no Person living should cheat me of my Money. She rav'd at me, and abused me; and I in the Violence of my Passion did this unhappy Murder. I had been upon the Jury that Morning with my Neighbours, and coming Home with some of them, we call'd in and drank at Mr. White's who keeps the Swan-Tavern on Fish street-Hill , and at the Wine-Cellar under Fishmongers-Hall ; and when I came Home, I did the fatal Deed.

'Twas our Misfortune to have a House full of Lodgers, many of whom were used by their Wives as I was by mine; some of them used to go out with her, and at all Hours would come Home with her drunk, and frequently bring Men with them, which was a Practice I could not bear without shewing my Resentment, and upon all Occasions she abused me, and they always did what they could to spirit up her Passion, and exasperate me. This is the whole Affair, and I know I must die, for I don't believe there is any one Person in the House where we liv'd, that will shew me any Favour, but will rather do all they can to procure my Downfall.

GEORGE WHALLEY , now a Prisoner in the Cells of Newgate .

The following is an Account of the ROBBERIES committed by Henry Fluellin .

HEnry Fluellin at Christmas next would have been twenty-one Years of Age; he was naturally of a very brisk sprightly Temper, and had a Head turn'd for mischievous Intrigues. From a Child he discover'd a roving Disposition, and would never be perswaded either to live with his Friends, or settle to any Business, tho' his Relations were People of Credit and Reputation, and some of them able and willing to have provided for him: He himself would have had four Four Score Pound per Annum, had he liv'd till Christmas; and on the Death of a Relation, pretty much advanc'd in Years, he would have been possess'd of 120 l. per Annum more. But his unhappy Genius leading him to associate with Companions of the same gay, enterprising Temper with his own, he soon fel into the Courses which brought him in the Prime of his Youth, to publick Shame, and an ignominious Death.

His chosen Confederates and Companions, were Stephen Baker , William Wager , alias Cockey, (who were both executed some Time ago for Highway Robberies) and the rest of that Gang; upon the breaking up of which, he got acquainted with Robert Ramsey , the Evidence against Cross and Car, (now in Newgate) and others, with whom he very industriously, and oftentimes very cunningly pursu'd Business, both in Town and Country, to the incredible Advantage of himself and his Accomplices.

One Exploit which he valu'd himself much upon, and for which he often applauded his own Contrivance and Ingenuity, was his robbing the Lady Moore in Soho-Square , which he effected in the following Manner.

One of his Companions, who was by Profession a Watch-maker, had got some Acquaintance with the Lady's Footman, by having mended a Watch for him. The Footman, over a Pot of Beer, inform'd this Man that his Lady was very ill, and was confin'd to her Chamber; that her Eyes were very bad, the Disorder having fallen upon them, and that Dr. Plumbtree in Bow-Lane attended her.

He thinking Fluelin's Genius might improve this Information to their Advantage, he immediately tells him the Condition Lady Moore was in, and left it to him to make use of it. Fluellin had been successful enough at the Business, not to want Money or Cloths fit for any Design, and he resolv'd to practise upon the Lady the next Morning. Accordingly he orders another of the Society (whom we shall call by the Name W. -) to attend him then as a Footman. When the Time came, Fluellin dress'd himself in his best Cloths, put on a silver hilted Sword, and took Coach for Soho Square , W - attending him in a Livery as his Servant, behind it. As they went along they provided themselves with a small Phial

of Eye-water at an Apothecary's Shop; and being come to the Lady's House, the Footman (W - jumps from behind the Coach and raps at the Door. A Maid Servant open'd it, and W - told her, she must go to the Coach and speak to the Gentleman Upon which the Gentleman in the Coach told her, his Father (Dr. Plumtree) presented his Service to the Lady, and had thought of a Remedy, which he perswaded himself would be of singular Service to the Lady's Eyes; that he had sent it by him, and if she pleased he would alight and shew her the Use of it. The Maid inform'd her Lady of all this, and the young Doctor was order'd up into the Lady's Chamber, while the Footman (W -) waited in the Kitchen for his Master's coming down again. Fluellin having told the Lady his Story, she suffer'd him to wet her Eyes with a Feather dipp'd in his Eye water, after which he pull'd out two Guineas, and told her she must shut them close, and must permit him to lay a Piece of Gold on each Eye, for five or six Minutes. This was done; and while the Guineas were upon the Lady's Eyes, he convey'd her Gold Watch and Equipage which hung upon a Sconce, and a Diamond Girdle Buckle off the Table (which they afterwards sold for 80 l.) into his Hat, covering them with his Handkerchief. When he had got what he could he told the Lady, he fear'd the Light would be too strong for her Eyes, immediately after the Use of the Medicine, so he made bold to draw all the Window Curtains close before he took off the Guineas; then he asked her whether she did not perceive an Alteration for the better? The Lady told him she thought she did, and that though the Room was darken'd, yet she could see the Sconce, and her Watch hanging upon it. Fluellin complimented her upon her Amendment, and desiring her to go on with the Use of the Medicine, he took his Leave.

When he came down Stairs he desired the Maid to let him have a little Table-beer; upon which she invited him into the Parlour, and while she was gone for the Beer, he added some silver Spoons and other Plate (which lay in the Beaufet) to the Cargo which was already in his Hat. He took the Beer from the Maid at the Parlour Door, and having drank a little, he made her a Present of a Crown, and W - (his Footman) come out of the Kitchen (where he had not been idle) and conducted the Doctor to the Coach, in which they carry'd away the Booty.

About a Month after this, Fluellin dress'd up W - like a Countryman, in a riding Coat, girt round him with a broad sacking Belt, buckled with four Buckles, intencing to * clack the Doctor, upon Mr. Robinson a Surgeon, in Grosvenor street . And accordingly they waited about the Street, till they saw Mr. Robinson and his Man go out; then they knock'd at the Door, and enquir'd for Mr. Robinson. The Maid told them her Master was abroad, but it would not be long before he returned. Fluellin took the Maid a little aside, and told her he was a Doctor, and the Countryman bring in a terrible Pickle with the Foul Disease, there was a Necessity for manual Operation, and he had brought him to her Master, who would get five Guineas for the Job. Upon this the Maid desired them to walk into the Surgery, and sit down. While they were there, W - complained that he was very ill and wanted to go to the Necessary House. The Maid directed him to the Place; and as he pass'd through the Entry, he look'd into the Rooms to see what might be got. Upon his Return into the Surgery he told Dr. Fluellin, he had seen a Tale, (a Sword) a Scout, (a Watch) a Calm and Shade, (a Hat and Wig) a Brace of Wedges, (Silver Buckles) and an outside Toge, (a Cloak) The Maid heard this Cant, but not understanding a Syllable of it, she imagin'd the Countryman's Head was out of Order, and he complaining terribly of his Pain, the Doctor seemed very much concerned for his Patient, and desired the Maid to get him a little Ale and warm it. While she was gone they seiz'd all the things that have been mention'd, and a large Silver Tankard besides, which were convey'd into Bags, fasten'd under the Countryman's Great Coat. The Maid returning with the warm Ale, before they had quite got themselves in Order, she observ'd them both to be in some Confusion, and asked them what was the Matter? Fluellin (ever ready with an Excuse) told her, his poor Patient had had a most terrible Fit, while she had been gone, and was so bad that he could not sit down; therefore he would take him to Chapman's Coffee-house, (in the Neighbourhood) and would stay there till Mr. Robinson came home, desiring the Girl to let

* Clacking the Doctor, is when one of the Gang personates a Physician, and under Pretence of coming with a Patient to the Surgeon for Advice, they watch their Opportunity to rob him.

him have Pen and Ink, and a Bit of Paper, because he would leave a Letter for him, which she must be sure to give him when he came home. The innocent Wench furnish'd him with Materials, and he wrote a Letter, beginning - Mr. Mac coo' trick' em, - and informing him that he had lost something by not being at home, when Customers call'd upon him; and if he was desirous to know how much he had suffer'd by being abroad, he must look into his Parlour,-for it had been visited by

Clack the Doctor.

The Letter was seal'd up and left with the Maid, and the Doctor and his Patient, instead of going to the Coffee-house, march'd off with the Plunder.

By these Devices, he always kept himself full of Cash; and that he might never want Materials or Tools for the various Branches of his Art, he laid out between forty and fifty Pounds with Mr. S - s, a Goldsmith in Cheapside , for an elegant Diamond Ring, which he had no sooner purchased, but dress'd like a Tavern Waiter, he offer'd to pawn it to Mrs. Cox, (a Pawn-broker in Drury-Lane ) for twelve Guineas. Mrs. Cox shew'd the Ring to a Jeweller, who told her it was a good Security for the Money. When she return'd she told him she would lend him twelve Guineas upon it. Yes, (says he) I don't doubt but you will, - but you must take particular Care of it; - 'tis a Gentleman's, who has lost some Money at Play, at our House, and he has sent his Watch and Seal and I have Orders to seal it up in a Piece of Paper, that you may not change it, - pulling out a Watch, with a Cornelian Seal. Mrs. Cox was very willing it should be seal'd up, and deliver'd it to him; he seal'd it up, and by Slight of Hand - tipp'd her a queer one, - done up in the same Manner in its Stead.

'Twas laid down by him, to his Companions, as a Maxim, that they must look upon themselves as in a State of War with, and Opposition to, all Mankind; therefore they must spare neither Friend nor Foe, when Money was short with them. As a Proof of his firmly adhering to this Maxim, she first Time they were put to their Shifts, he inform'd them, his Mother had a fine repeating Clock, valu'd at twenty five Pounds, which he would undertake to procure for the Subsistence of the Fraternity; and he was as good as his Word; for without much Difficulty he found Means to bring it off to his Companions, who immediately pawn'd it for 7 l. Fluellin's Mother soon finding out who had stole her Clock, and where it was pawn'd, she went to the Pawnbroker and told him, the Clock he had received, was stolen from her by her Son; and she was sure he would soon want Money, and so would come or send to him again about it, therefore she desired him to stop the Persons that should come. And it was not long before they determin'd to raise a little more Money upon it by selling it outright. To this Purpose they consulted one Moses S - n, a Jew, (who used to buy their ill-gotten Goods of Value) and W - was employ'd to tell the Jew, there was such a Clock in Pawn, for 7 l. which was worth three Times the Money, and if he would redeem it, for a Trifle more, they would sell it outright to him. The Jew consented, and went with W - to the Pawnbroker's to see the Clock. The Pawnbroker remember'd the Orders given him by Fluellin's Mother, but fearing he should lose the Clock and the 7 l. too, he spoke to W - and the Jew very kindly; shew'd them the Clock, and took the 7 l. and the Interest, which came to 24 s. from the Jew, then whipp'd the Clock out of the Way, and charged a Constable with them both. They were carry'd before a Magistrate, but it not appearing that W - was the Person that stole the Goods, he was discharg'd, and the Jew left to seek his Remedy in the best Manner he could, for his Money.

After this, Fluellin and his Friend W -. furnished themselves with Pistols, and took the Road to Epping They rode several Hours about the Forrest, and then they met with a Gentleman in a four-wheel'd Chaise, from whom they took a Silver Watch, and 3 s. 6 d. in Money; then riding toward Rumford , they overtook a Doctor of Physic, that lived at Colchester. Fluellin fell into Discourse with him, and among other Things told him he had a Charge of Money about him; so have I, says the Doctor, but I don't fear any Highwayman, for I have a good Hanger here, and a Brace of Pistols. Fluellin and W - rode with him till they came a little beyond Brentwood , then they attacked him, and ordered him to deliver his Charge. The Doctor set Spurs to his Horse, and galloped some Distance from them; then he jumped off his Horse, and taking a Pistol in each Hand, stood upon his Defence; but Fluellin came up to him, and swore bitterly if he did not hold his Pistols upright above his Head, he would murder him. The Doctor was terrified, and did as he was ordered, upon which they immediately seized and disarmed him, and robb'd him of 47 Guineas, a Silver Watch, and 9 Shil

lings in Silver. When they had robbed him, they pulled of his Garters and their own, with which they tied his two Pistols one on each Side of his Wig, and his Hanger to the Bottom of it, that it might hang down his Back; then they set him upon his Horse, with his Face toward the Tail, and fastened his Hands behind him, and his Legs under the Horse's Belly; and Fluellin finding a Bit of Chalk in his Pocket, he whited the Edges of the Doctor's Hat, and wrote upon his Back, - This Fellow never wore a Tye-Wig before, but now see how fine he's made by the Essex Highwaymen! then whipping his Horse, away he gallopp'd with the Doctor in this Condition towards Colchester.

The same Day they met with the Colchester Stage-Coach beyond Brentwood , and robbed a Man in it of a Silver Watch, the Maker's Name - Burton, - No. 780. and about 27 Shillings in Money, and a Woman of 5 Guineas, and 4 s. 9 d. then they rode directly to London, and put up their Horses at the Dolphin Inn , in Whitechapel . After which they agreed to pawn the Watch, No. 780. at the Greyhound in Houndsditch . Fluellin asked the Pawnbroker three Guineas upon it, and said his Father was a Farmer at Rumford, and that his Father's Men had brought some Loads of Hay to Town, but not having sold any, they were at a Loss for Money to discharge their Expences in Town, and therefore he must leave his Watch with him till next Market-Day. The Man paid no Regard to this Story, but stopped the Watch, till they should bring somebody to vouch the Watch was his own. This put Fluellin and his Comrade into Despair of ever recovering it again, for they did not doubt but it would be advertised. In this Dilemma, they had Recourse to their old Friend R  I -, and told him the Story, promising him a Ridge or two (a Guinea or two) to get the Watch out of the Pawnbroker's Hands. He promised to do it, and accordingly the next Morning Fluellin came on Horseback to a Publick House, (the next Door to the Pawnbroker's) and as soon as R  I - came to him, they both went to the Pawnbroker's to demand the Watch, Fluellin leaving his Horse at the Alehouse Door. R  I - told the Pawnbroker, that the Gentleman (Mr. Fluellin) had bought the Watch of him, that his Name was Burton, and the Number upon it was 780. The Pawnbroker said, he believed they were both Rogues, and told them he was resolved not not to deliver it. Upon which Fluellin pulled out a Brace of Pistols, and with horrid Imprecations, swore he was a dead Man that Instant if he did not deliver it immediately, or offered to make the least Noise. The Man was terrified at the Sight of two cock'd Pistols, and returned it. Fluellin with Threats kept him silent, while R  I - got out of the Shop, and then he immediately ran out himself, jump'd upon his Horse's Back, and rode Pistol in Hand quite through Houndsditch , and though he was followed with Sticks, Staves, Hammers, and an Out cry of Stop Highwayman! yet he got clear off. The Watch being thus recovered, R  I - lent him two Guineas upon it himself, which Fluellin and his Partner generously presented to R  I -'s two Children, in order to engage his Assistance in a future Time of Need.

Some Time after this Fluellin and W - rode down to Colchester , where not finding Business to answer, they came from thence towards Waltham-Abbey , and overtaking a Quaker, who was very well mounted, Fluellin rode a considerable Way with the Quaker cheek by jole, and discoursed with him about his Religion. The Quaker desired him to drop that Subject, for he was sure (he said) they should not agree on that Topic. Fluellin immediately fell to mentioning the Danger honest Men were liable to in travelling, as the Roads were so infested with Rogues. The Quaker said, he was not much afraid of being robbed, for he had a good brisk Horse under him. Aye, but I am (says Fluellin) for my Father is a Grasier at East-Ham, and I have 300 l. about me of his Money, therefore would be obliged to you if you would let me ride your Horse. The Quaker refused, but Fluellin and W - pulled out their Pistols, and bid him surrender his Horse and his Money, or he was a dead Man. The poor Quaker gave them 4 l. a Silver Watch and some Half-pence, and was obliged to change Horses with Fluellin; then threatning him if he did not ride quietly on towards Waltham-Abbey, they left him and came directly to the Green-Man at Epping-Forrest , where they put up their Horses and lay all Night.

The next Morning Fluellin got up, and took it into his Head to ride about the Forrest by himself for an Airing; he was under no Apprehensions of being robbed himself, but happening to be met with by George Sutton , (since executed) Abraham Davenport , and one Dorrel Smalt , (who also were afterwards capitally convicted) they attacked Fluellin, and notwithstanding his Plea, that he himself was a Collector, and though he was well mounted upon the Quaker's Mare, and they

all on Foot, yet they play'd rob Thief with him, and took from him his Watch, Buckles, and 13 s. and 6 d.

Upon this he came back to W - at the Green-Man , and told him he had met with Three Rogues on Foot, who had had the Impudence to rob him; and after some Consuitation to be even with them, they got as many Half-pence as they could, and putting a Quantit, of Gravel and Clay into a Handkerchief, they stuck the Half-pence about it, and ty'd all up together in such a Manner, that it appeared like a good handsome Parcel of Money. W - carried the Parcel, and Fluellin accompanied him to the Place from whence the Rogues sprung to attack him; when the supposed themselves to be within hearing, says W -, I have got 400 l. here in this Handkerchief of my Lady's Money, and if the Men that robbed you, should be here still and seize me, I am ruin'd for ever. The Three Footpads immediately jumped upon them from behind some thick Bushes, and ordered them to deliver. W - begged hard for his Lady's Money, telling them he was carrying it to a Grasier at Chigwell; but they seized the Handkerchief, and ran with it to their hiding Place, where they immediately sat themselves down to look at their Booty. Before they had opened the Handkerchief, Fluellin and W - rush'd upon them, with double-barrel'd Pistols, swearing if they offer'd to stir, they would let fly among them. They begged for Mercy, and surrendered themselves Prisoners at Discretion. Upon which they bound them all with their own Garters, and after they had throughly plundered them, they pulled down their Breeches and floged them with Nettles and Thistles, till they roll'd about and spun like a Top; and after they had exercised their Strength for a considerable Time upon them in this Manner, they left them wallowing upon the Ground to get loose when they could.

At the Sluice, within three Miles of Coventry , Fluellin, W -, and two others, robbed a Grasier of 27 Moidores, and having ordered the Grasier to ride off the Way they directed him, they were under no Apprehension of being pursued, so rode leisurely on towards Coventry ; but before they reach'd the City, they found there was a Hue and Cry after them, by the sounding of a Horn; upon which two of them fled towards Birmingham, another took the next Road to Lancashire, and W - made the most private Way he could for London, and had certainly been taken, had not he thrown away his Coat and his Pistols, and powdered himself from Head to Foot, as much as he could, with his ; for he was met by the Hue and Cry, and if he had seen four Men on Horseback; - told them, no, - he had not, and rode leely on like a Miller's Servant; but he mended his Pace before he came to the Turnpike, and seemed to be in a great Hurry when he came up to it, telling the Gate-Keeper he was in Pursuit of four Men that had robbed his Master, and they being gone a cross Road, be imagined he knew where they would come into the Road again, and was resolv'd to take them. Upon this the Man let him thro' the Turnpike, and he gallop'd so excessive hard towards London, that at St. Alban's his Mare dropped down dead under him, which was a very great Loss to W -, for the Mare had been bred to the Business by Stephen Baker , and cost twentyfive Guineas.

Baker, to the Time of his Execution, was Captain, and Head of the Gang; and in the Division of every Booty, as such, he had a double Share. In order to train up Young-Currs to the Road, he would carry three or four of them out, and Officer-like, when any Thing came in the Way, he gave Orders for the Attack, and directed the Manner in which it should be carried on; and having given the necessary Directions, he used to stand at a Distance to observe the Motions of the Enemy and when he saw any of his Pupils about to retreat, his Custom was to ride up, and clap a Pistol to the Head of the Spark that retreated, and thereby oblige him to go through his Business, else he was to be shot as a Deserter and Coward. Fluellin retained a great Veneration for his Master Baker, and said he was a Man of a Noble Spirit, for his Schollars never robb'd a Coach, but he was very angry with them if they did not give the Coachman a Crown, or Half a Guinea.

After this Dispersion, on Account of this Robbery, it was some time before Fluellin and his Companions met, and the first Meeting was at Mother Bird's, in Colson's-Court , Drury-Lane . Here Fluellin, Baker, Wager, and W -, agreed their next Attempt should be nearer Home. Accordingly they all four set out from Mother Bird's for Finchley-Common , where they met Dr. Mountagile in a Landau, with six Horses. One of them struck a Fore Horse on the Head, and swore the Coachman and Postillion were dead Men if they did not stop. W - rode up to the Landau, and seeing three Ladies in it beside the Doctor, he begged of the Ladies not to be affrighted,

telling them they should not be ill used, provided they instantly delivered their Watches, Money, Rings, &c. which being done, and Compliments having passed on both Sides, they rode off.

The next Robbery they committed was in a green Lane leading to East-Ham , where they met a Country Girl on Horseback, between a Pair of Panniers, coming from Market, and they were not contented with robbing her of 47 Shillings, but made her dismount, and taking her under a Hedge, abused her in a shameful Manner.

After this Fluellin and W - took the Bath Road, and upon Hounslow-Heath , they robbed the Passengers in the Bath Coach, to the Value of Fourscore Pounds, and a Man behind the Coach, who had been hired to go as a Guard thereto, as soon as the Passengers had been plundered, discharged a Blunderbuss, and shot W - in the Hip with a Slug, and graz'd him under the Eye with another; upon which Fluellin set Spurs to his Horse, and riding up to him, shot him Dead upon the spot, and then gallopp'd off.

Being tired of this Way of Life, they consulted how to get Money in a genteeler Manner, and agreed upon Chiving the Frow, i. e. cutting off Women's Pockets, Girdles, &c. For this Purpose Fluellin dressed himself like a Gentleman, and W - attended him in a Livey as his Servant at the Playhouses, and other Places of Publick Resort, where his gay Appearance always contributed to his coming off undiscovered.

One Night as W - was attending 'Squire Fluellin to the Playhouse, they saw a young Gentlewoman go into the Pit, that liv'd not far from the Haymarket, and to whom the 'Squire had sent several Love-Letters by his Man W -. The 'Squire immediately ordered his Man into the Footman's Gallery, and seated himself next the Lady in the Pit, where he let her know, he was the Person that had frequently troubled her with a Letter by his Servant, and that he was very happy in being seated so near one who had been so long the Object of his constant Affection,& - with much more to the same Purpose; between the Acts he entertained her with Ends of Verses, which he had got by Heart from the Academy of Compliments; such as,

I am but young in Art, and cannot show

The Kindness which I would to you bestow.

Madam, to you alone I bow and bend;

I'm happy if I may be call'd, your Friend.

And when the Play was over, he prevail'd on her (with many Assurances of his being a Man of Honour) to refresh herself with a Glass of Wine. Accordingly the 'Squire and his Man W -, usher'd the young Lady to the Crown Tavern , near the Hay-Market , where he informed her again of his honourable Passion for her, and that he should take it as a particular Favour if she would change him a Piece or two of Gold with him, by which he should remember the Happiness he then enjoyed in her Company. She told him she had no Inclination to deny him so trifling a Favour, and accordingly pulled out a Purse with some Gold, and among other Money was a Three Pound Twelve Shilling Piece. He begged he might change that with her, and pulled out a Purse of Guineas, and wrapping up some of them in a Paper, he rose from his Seat, and saluting her, desired she would put them into her Pocket instead of the Three Pound - Twelve Shilling - Piece. The Lady, not suspecting her Lover's Honour, put the Paper into her Pocket, and gave the 'Squire Leave not only to see her Home, but to pay her his Visits there; which produced an Infinite Number of Vows on his Part, and Professions of the Sincerity of his Affection. But when the Lady came to inspect the Contents of her Paper, she found the 'Squire (her Lover) had bit her out of her Three Pound Twelve Shilling Piece, and had palm'd a few Shillings upon her in Return.

The following Evening Fluellin and W - went to G  H - 's in Drury-Lane , where they found one I - c M - z, an eminent Jew, very much in Liquor, in company with a Parcel of lewd Women. Fluellin thought it hard the Jew should be rifled and he come in for none of the Plunder, so he beckon'd him out of the Room, and told him he would certainly be robb'd by those Women; assuring him at the same time, that he kept a very agreable Girl himself, and rather than he should be ill used, he would consent that his Lady should oblige him with her Company. The Jew very thankfully accepted the Offer, and Fluellin and his Man W - conducted him to Tom King 's in Covent Garden , where they sent for Mrs. Brown, and told her they had brought her a Daucy Cock, (a sleeping Cull) who had 50 or 60 Ridges (Guineas) about him. Mrs. Brown told the Jew he should be welcome (with 'Squire Fluellin's Leave) to her Lodgings, which were not a great Way off; the 'Squire consented, and they set out together for Madam's Lodging; instead of which they got the Jew up a Street, near Sir John Old castle 's, and he not caring to go any farther, the

'Squire told him they were just at Mrs. Brown's Door, but the People of the House being credible People, they might suspect Mrs. Brown's Virtue, if she brought home a Gentleman in such fine Cloaths; therefore he propos'd changing Cloaths with him, and then he might whip up Stairs, and the People of the House would think it was him. The Jew consented, and put on Fluellin's Cloaths, and as he was very much in Liquor they very kindly assisted him in stripping, and pick'd his Pocket of all his Money, and a Gold Watch; and then gave him a Polt and ran away from him with the Booty.

After this Robbery, Robert Ramsey (the Person concerned with Cross and Car in forging a Note upon Mr. Hoare) was admitted into Fluellin's Company. He was bred a Chymist , and being, by his Knowledge of Drugs and Medicines, able to go through the Business, Fluellin, W -, and he, reviv'd the Trade of clacking the Doctor; and their first Attempt was upon Mr. Browding's Shop, an Apothecary near the Seven Dials ; which Shop they watch'd till they had Reason to believe that every body was out of the Way but Tommy Twang , (the Person that serves in the Shop) and here they went in, to ask for some Syrrup of Golden Rod, Ramsey telling the Man, he had some from his Master some little Time ago; and while Ramsey and Fluellin amused the Man by directing him to such and such Pots and Bottles, the other slipp'd into the Parlour, and furnish'd himself with Plate and every Thing he could lay his Hands on, and bring off undiscoverld.

Mr. Mawson an Apothecary was robb'd by these People in this Manner, of Plate, three Bank Notes, an India Bond, and other Things of Value, in the same Manner, which were carry'd to Holland by Ramsey and W -, and there dispos'd of.

Mr. Taylor an Apothecary (in Leadenhall street ) had the same Customers for Acid of Vipers, and while the Man was looking for it, one of them walked to and fro', and at last stepp'd far enough to find a Watch, a Tye Wig, and some Money that lay in a Bureau, which (the Key being in it) he made bold to open.

This Trade they follow'd till it became stale. Then their Practice was, to go down to Queenhithe , or the Three Cranes , and get a Boat, in which they would go below Bridge, and make their Way into Cabbins of Ships, through the Windows, and often brought a tolerable good Cargo back with them to Black-fryars Stairs .

W - in his Livery, was often employ'd to clack the Carriers. Once in particular, they bought a Two-penny Handbasket, which they fill'd with Straw and a few Bricks; and having got two Geese-Necks, they sew'd up the Basket, letting the two Heads hang out at each End of the Basket; (and directed it on a Parchment Label, to somebody at Oxford) W - was order'd to carry this to the White Swan-Inn, at Holhorn-Bridge: He was very careful to see the Parcel book'd, and happen'd to see a large Parcel of Hats, which were enter'd next to his two Geese, he came back and gave Information of the Particulars, and who they were directed to. Immediately one of them put on a brown Apron, and another drest himself like a Porter, and describing (very particularly) the Goods, desired to have them back, for some of the Sortments were to be altered, Time enough for the Goods to come again before the Carrier went out, by this Means they got the Hatts, which were sold at Half Crown a Piece, and the Money divided between Fluellin, Ramsey and W -.

Once as Fluellin, Ramsey, and W -, were strolling up hancery Lane , they observ'd a Man at a Coffee House, to call - Porter. They loiter'd about 'till a Portmantua was deliver'd the Porter, with Orders to carry it to a Gentleman's Chambers in Furnivall's Inn Fluellin, Ramsey, and W- in his Livery, made all speed to Brown's Coffee-House in Holborn , where Fluellin and Ramsey went in, leaving W - at the Door, who was to tell them when the Porter was coming. The Signal was given when the Porter came in Sight, and 'Squire Fluellin came out to his Man W - at the Door, cursing and swearing at his Man, that he had made him stay so long for his Portmanteau.

Lord Sir (says W -) it was sent from the Coffee-House to your Chambers, and I thought I should have seen the Porter with it before now; but Sir (the Porter being come up to them) here it is, will you please to have it carry'd to your Chambers? No, (says the 'Squire) you Blockhead, have not I waited long enough for it? - pay the Porter, and do you take and carry it to the Coach yourself, - you'll make more haste than the Porter. The Porter deliver'd them the Portmanteau, which was carried directly to Mother Bird's, and upon opening it they found Goods &c. in it, to the Value of 350 l.

This Booty being divided, they equipp'd themselves for Adventures in the Country, and went as far as Preston in Lancashire . They put up at Mr. Taylor's, the Red-Lion at Preston . Here Ramsey pass'd for a Baronet, Fluellin for his Gentleman, and W - for Sir Robert Ramsey 's Footman. Here, by Virtue of forg'd Writings, and a Present

of a Pair of Silver Tankards to Mr. Taylor, they defrauded him out of 400 l. pledging him a close Purse with leaden Pieces in it, for his Money; which as they were old Family Pieces, the Baronet insisted upon Mr Taylor's keeping safe, 'till he return'd him his 400 l.

This was the Life this Malefactor led; having been used to the Business from five Years of Age.

His usual Residence, was with P - g Y - g, in Three-Dagger-Court , in the Old Change , Cheapside ; who was been an Assistant in, and Accessary to the Commission of several Robberies with him. Her House is what the Thieves call a Case, that is, a Harbour for Whores and Robbers, and where Wine and Drams are sold; and by these Means, the Gang has been supported with Money, to that Degree, that it has been very common for them to with and lose 20 Guineas and upwards, at a single Game at Cards.

The following LETTER was sent to Madam M - s.

GOOD MADAM,

HAD I the Eloquence of Cicero, it would be too little to set forth your Goodness and Charity to me all my whole Life, and in all my Adversities, when every body had forsaken me, but my God and you; and I most humbly beg that you will remember me in your Prayers, and more particular, to put them up in your Church. Dear Madam, as you have been a Parent to me, ever since my own dyed, and who as I have always found as such, even in all my Troubles and Adversities, when despised even by my own Blood, but as she is dead, I must draw a Vale, since neither the affinity of Blood, and I being the last of the Family (though I own myself guilty of Faults) cou'd ever bring her Face to Face: Though this I must own, in Justice to her Memory if she had not been imposed on by Persons who now find a large Account of her great Riches, which once I might have expected as mine, and now refuse to pay that small Stipend my dear Aunt was pleas'd to leave me, though now another Persons Right, and who could seize in a lawful and just way, but have been deterred for fear of hurting my Life. The Summer before my dear Aunt dyed, I went to Barnett , as miserable as possible, and destitute of every Thing but God's Grace; but finding I cou'd not get to the Speech of my dear Aunt, I went to a Gentleman's House, where I stay'd (in the Yard) 'till dusk in the Evening, and though the Servants knew who I was, never asked me to go in Doors, or sit down, and being through the Heat of the Weather almost choak'd with Thirst, I desired some small Beer, which after some difficulty, was brought, but in such a Manner, as if I had been the greatest Vagabond on Earth, and was told, I must come in the Morning, tho' I had London to come to, which would have been too far, to have been there in the Morning, and having no Money, I went into a Field near Whetstone , and lay in a Haycock all Night; but alas! when Morning came, the good and charitable Gentleman sent me Word down Stairs, that my dear Aunt had forbad them of interceeding in my Behalf; nay, he not so much as ask'd me to break my Fast, nor wou'd give me the least Trifle to carry me to Town. But God bless them and their Riches, for I don't envy them; but I hope my Riches which God Almighty has bestowed on me, thro' the Merits of our Saviour and Redeemer Jesus Christ, will last for ever. Good Madam, don't be offended that I let the World know both of you and dear Mr. M - s, what pains you have taken to save my Life, besides supporting me in so bountiful a Manner, and not doubting your Charity and extensive Goodness to see me buryed, for I shall be very unwilling to be obliged to Persons to bury me, that would not send me the smallest Relief in this my great Tribulation. Good Madam I must observe to you, that in one of my former Letters of the third of October, it being my unhappy Birth-Day, I wrought you Word, I would keep it with a double Pomp of Sorrow; now this being the third of November, I have kept it with a double Pomp of Joy and Gladness, that God Almighty of his infinite Goodness and Mercy, that he not only keeps me in my Senses, but gives me greater Strength of Mind, and a firmer Resolution than ever I had in my Life; and when the dismal News was first brought, I received it as one that had fought the Battles of the Lord, and as a good Christian should submit to his heavenly Will, tho' so miserable a Sinner. Dear Madam, Mr. M - s having had so much trouble already, I can't beg the Favour of him to go any more either to the Duke of N - e, or the Duke of M - h, though Sunday Night being Council Night, might be of the utmost Consequence; but there is one Favour I must beg, and most humbly hope Mr. M-s will grant, as I know it to be largely in his Power to get an Order from the Sherriffs for my Bdoy, which will be the greatest Means of my dying in Peace; and what a Requient wou'd it be to my departing Soul, if you and Mr. M - s would come and forgive me before I go hence, and be no more seen, you would not find me overwhelm'd with Grief and Tears, but Joy and Glad

ness, that my Glass is so nigh run, and that my God did not cut me off in my Wickedness without giving me Time for Repentance; and I thank my God I am not afraid to dye, and can even smile at Death. My humble Thanks and Prayers to you good Madam, and Mr. M - s, for those innumerable Favours which I have receiv'd, even from my Childhood to my last Moments, which is all at Present from,

Madam, Your most devoted, most obliged, Unhappy humble Servant.

Edward Barcock .

From my Cell in Newgate , Friday Night, November 3, 1738.

P. S. Dear Madam, I hope you won't forget me in your Prayers.

N. B. The abovesaid unhappy Person wrote another Letter about Three o'Clock on Wednesday Morning in his Cell, to the same Person as above, Part of which he wrote with his own Blood.

Thomas Raby , Thomas Jones , alias Brown , and John Fosset , having been long acquainted together, and most of their Robberies having been committed in Company jointly, we shall (as we are straiten'd for Room) give the Public an Account of their Proceedings in Partnership.

The Business which Raby and Jones followed most frequently, was what they call in their Dialect, Gambling. Their Method was to search the Streets, for a Countryman, or one who they imagined was ignorant of the Town; and when they met with a Person for their Purpose, Jones walked some little Way before him, Raby, and others of their Companions, behind him; on a sudden Jones would stoop down, and immediately say, he had pick'd up Half a Crown; then addressing the Countryman, he would say, Why! you was veay near it; if you had taken it up, I should have cry'd, - Halves; but as you look like an honest Man, if you'll go and drink, I'll treat you out of it. If the Countryman consented, they carried him to a House fit for the Design; Raby and W  I - would follow, and artfully get into Jones's and the Countryman's Company, and when Liquor had gone plentifully about, Cards would be called for, and cutting them for so much Money, or a particular Game, would be proposed, and the Countryman was never left, till he had not a Farthing left in his Pocket, nor any Thing valuable about him.

Raby's Acquaintance with Fosset began at a Public House in Rag-Fair , frequented by such Persons, here Raby agreed with Fosset, and some of his Crew, to accompany him on the Water Lay, and they followed the Trade of getting into Ships through the Cabin Windows, and stealing all they could find, till Fosset was taken up for a Fact of this Kind, and he making himself an Evidence against some of his Accomplices, the Confederacy was broke up for some Time.

Raby, even at the Time when he was engaged in these Courses, and with these Companions, kept a little Barber 's Shop in Clerkenwell-Close , and when he wanted Money, he would frequently send one of his Gang, in a Barber's Frock, to Gentlemen's Houses, on Monday Mornings, for their Wigs to be buckl'd up; by this Means he not only defrauded his own Customers (to whom he always pleaded ignorance of the Rogue their Wigs had been delivered to) but several Persons in Red-Lion Street, and Places adjacent. This Practice soon lost him all his Customers, and reduced him to the Necessity of entering himself into the Society of Highwaymen, who frequented Baker's House, who at that Time kept the Adam and Eve at Pancras . While he was harboured in this House, he, with one John Strutt , a Butcher , frequently stole Sheep in the Night out of the Fields, which Strutt kill'd and cut up at his Lodgings at Black-Mary's-Hole , and then carried them to Rag Fair to dispose of.

One Night Raby and some of his Companions happened to be gaming at a House in Vinegar-Yard , there they met with Fluellin, and then began the Contrivance to cheat the Carriers and Book-keepers at Inns out of Parcels, which had been put under their Care.

In Hampstead-Fair Time, he and Fluellin, and Strutt the Butcher, frequently lurk'd about Primrose Hill , and robbed every Passenger that passed that Way; among others they robbed an old grey-headed Gentleman of seven Guineas and a Tortoise-shell Snuff-Box. He had been at the Fair, and had pick'd up a Woman of the Town, who was very well acquainted with Raby, and notwithstanding the Lady's Intercession for her

Spark, he not only took away the Things abovementioned, but stripped him of his Coat and Waistcoat likewise.

One of his former Companions, ( Abram Davenport , who was convicted capitally some Time ago, for stealing a Tankard of Mr. Udall's at the Magpye-and-Horse shoe in Fleet street ) just before his Conviction had taken Lodgings at Chelsea , with one of his Spouses; he invited Mr. Raby, and W  J - to come to see him and his Ladies, and the Day was appointed The two Gentlemen accordingly set out, to pay this Visit to their Consederate, but as they were going over the Five Fields, three Rogues (not of their own Gang) set upon them, and play'd Rob Thief with them, and took from them all the Money they had provided themselves with, to make merry with their Friend Davenport This Disaster made them forward their Pace to Chelsea , and complaining to Davenyort of their Misfortune, hd immediately furnished them and himself with Pistols, and they set out in search of the Robbers; whom they found, not far from the Place where they appear'd at first. Ae Attack immediately ensu'd, and Davenport and his Friends recover'd what had been taken, and thirty seven Shillings extraordinary for their Trouble. After this they bound them, and flung them into a Ditch, where they left them to help themselves as well as they could.

Then they returned toward Chelsea , and in their Way, meeting with an Ensign in the Guards, they robbed him of a Maidore and 14 s. 6 d.

Some little Time after this, Davenport was taken up on Account of the Tankard; and then Raby and W  J -, with Cockey Wager, lately exrcuted, agreed to go on the Highway. For this purpose they hired Horses of D  L - s, at Black Mary's Hole , and rode to Finchley , where they robbed a Countryman of four Guineas and some Silver. From thence they proceeded toward Hendon , where they met the Rev. Dr. Wiison, who was then oing to Edgeware. They robbed the Doctor of seventeen Guineas, and went directly to the Sign of the Bell , a publick Home between Edgware and Hendon , to share the Booty. Wager (who never feared any Danger) kept them tippling in the House, till they were beset by the Country-people, whom the Doctor's Footman had alarmed. Wager, and W  J -, were taken, but Raby escaped out of a Back-door, and got away over the Fields; but though he was at Liberty, he did not forget his two Companions. He enquired after them, as soon as he could with Safety, and found they were both in Goal. Upon this he went to G - e M - y, in Dolphin-Court , Ludgate-Hill , and consulted with him, how to get his Companions at Liberty. G - e M - y provided himself with a Clergyman's Habit, and Raby having got a Certiorari, they went before a Judge, where the pretended Doctor told a Story of his having seen one of the Men that had robbed him in New-Prison, and the other two in the New-Goal in Southwark; and that these Men he knew not, nor could he charge them with any thing. Wager and W  J - upon this moved to be let out upon Bail; their Motion was complyed with, and Raby and N - d C - le immediately swore themselves substantial Housholders; their Bail was taken, and the two Rogues, by this Trick, escaped the Justice of the Law (at that time) and the Resentment of the real Doctor Wilson, who when he came to look after his Prisoners, and found they had been bailed out, and that neither they nor their Bail were to be hear'd of, he was so provoked that he advertised them, and offered forty (or fifty) Pounds Reward to any that could retake them.

The first Robbery Raby committed on the Highway was at Kensington about 2 Years ago, where he and one - robbed a Gentleman in a Coach, of a silver Watch, and about 4 l. in Money, and 2 Days after robb'd a Gentleman and a Lady in a Chaise of about 8 l. a Watch, and a mourning Ring, finding themselves advertised, left off the Highway; he and another meeting a Woman in Jewin street going for a Bottle of Wine attack'd her, and finding she had no Money, whipt off her Cloak and ran away and pawn'd it, but a Discovery being made, my Companion turn'd Evidence, and I was tried for it at the Old Baily in April last, and was acquitted. We lurk'd about Leaden-hall-street , very often waiting for the Jews coming Home, and robb'd two of them, from the first we took his Watch, and about 7 l. in Portugal Gold; and the other we robbed of 5 old Silver Watches, which we suppose he had bought that Night.

On a Rejoycing-Night there was a Bonefire in Cheapside , where my Companion and I went, and seeing a Girl I lik'd, I saluted her, and asked her how she did, she did not like my Freedom, and said she did not know me, on which I abused her, and said she was my Wife, and I had not seen her for 3 Months. My Companion, and others of our Company confirming what I said, she was persuaded to own me, and went with me, and when I had got her in a proper Place rifled her Pockets, and took a Handkerchief from her, but she crying out she was robb'd, and some People coming

to her Assistance, I thrusted my Handkerchief into her Bosom; which was found upon her when the People came my Companion and the rest coming by accidentally (as it may be) asked me what was the Matter, I told them the Woman had pick'd my Pocket, they pretended to be surprised to see me in any Scrape, he spoke a great deal of my Honesty, and the Girl was hoisted away to St. Paul's Church-yard, and sluced at the Pump.

DEAN BRIANT , was born at Haverly in Essex ; his Parents, while he was young, remov'd him to Harwick , and got him Employment on Board of a Ship. Being thus early inured to Sea Business , he followed the same ever afterwards, and is reported to have behaved well in the several Stations he was engaged in.

After the Death of his Father, his Mother was possessed of a small Estate, which had been settled upon her as a Jointure, but upon Condition, that it she married again, it should come to him and his Brother. Accordingly upon her second Marriage, they became possessed of it, and Dean Briant sold his Moiety to his Brother, about the Time of his Marriage with the Woman he murdered. He was naturally of a gay Temper, and lov'd Company, Dancing, &c. from hence (in all Probability) might arise his Dislike of, and Aversion to his Wife; who, by those that knew her best, is reported to have been a sober, careful, honest Woman. And tho' he seemed particularly cautious (while he was under Condemnation) of dropping any Expressions which might be interpreted as an Acknowledgment of his horrid Crime, yet there are some Persons in Being, to whom he confessed the Fact privately, and the shocking Manner in which it was perpetrated; nor are there wanting those who make no Question, but his Attachment to leud Women, was the Cause of both his, and his Wife's Misfortune.

It was reported that D -'s Wife had been with him the Night this unhappy Accident happened; and it is so far from that, she had not been with him, neither did he see her for some Weeks before.

N. B. On Monday Night the 6th instant, about 1 and 2 o'Clock. Mr. Thomas, Fosset, Upton, as also Golding, broke thro' 2 Cells, and getting into the Passage, they broke a great Hole in the Roof of the Cells, but there they found the Timber so fortified with Iron, that they judged it impracticable to escape, so they return'd to their respective Cells. Mr. Cross being in the Cell with Thomas, assisted in the Design, and Mr. Thomas own'd he meditated the Undertaking, and did the greatest Part of the Work. Upon this, Mr. Thomas, Cross, Upton, and Fosset, were put into the Condemned Hole for the rest of the Time. Golding declared, that if he had had Time, he could have open'd all the Doors in the Prison with the Tools which Mr. Thomas had been furnished with, (as it is said by his Maid-Servant.) While he was confin'd in the Old-Condemned-Hole, he spent most part of his Time in writing Letters; particularly one to his Wife, who is now in Ireland, which was a very moving one.

FINIS.

