A full and true Account, of the Behaviours, Confessions, and last Dying Speeches, of the Condemn'd Criminals, that were Executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 19th of April, 1700.

JOHN Larkin , alias Robert Young , Condemn'd for High-Treason, in Counterfeiting the Current Coin of the Kingdom. Being examined, said, that he was born in Antrim in Ireland , that his Parents perceiving his Genius inclin'd to Learning, kept him at School for some time, and then sent him to the University of Glascow in Scotland , where he made some proficiency in the Study of Philosophy ; then he returned to Ireland , and took upon him the care of a School ; which painful Office he discharg'd so well, that it gained him a general Applause. But having a roving unsettled Mind, he resolv'd to leave that Place, and visit the remotest Parts of that Kingdom, and assuming the Habit of a Minister, performed several Offices belong to that Sacred Function. Then he came to England , and remained for some time in Lancashire ; being, as he said, Master of a Free-School there, having about an Hundred Scholars committed to his Care; but being viciously inclin'd, lived at such a rate, that his Incomes could not answer his unnecessary and exorbitant Expences; which caused him to rack his Invention how to support his profuse way of living. At length he resolved to Forge Bonds, and Counterfeit Hands, in the which pernicious Practices he made such a considerable Progress, that as he freely confest, he could perform it so Artificially that it would be a difficult thing for the Person himself to distinguish the true from the false. This villainous Action was his sole Refuge, and brought in no small Gain. Sometimes he would affix a Bishops Hand, and several eminent Divines to his Letters Testimonial, and so Collect several Sums of Money under pretence of Redeeming several poor Christian Captives that were detained in Slavery. At other times he would Forge Goldsmiths Notes, and Bills of Exchange: This Course of Life he followed for some time, at length Justice overtook him, and his villainies were detected; for which he suffered an Ignominious Puishment, and committed to Prison till he discharged his Fine, which was so considerable, that all Thoughts of Liberty were vanished. In that doleful Place, the Evidence as he said, used to Coin several Sums of Money, and endeavoured to perswade him to assist them, which Proposal, as he pretended, he absolutely refused to comply with; and indeed he was so obstinate as to persevere in this foolish Relation, namely, that he only saw them Coin, that he never actually assisted them, nor had any of the Money for his Share, &c. I earnestly desired him to insist no longer on the Vindication of his pretended Innocence of that Fact, for his Crime was manifest, therefore it became him to own the Justice of his Sentence; to profess rather his abhorance and true Repentance of that Crime of Coining which he died for, and of all his other notorious Villanies, to declare the Satisfaction he would make were he able, to all those Persons he had wronged; to beg all to forgive him, who had suffered by him in any kind, especially those who had learnt any ill from his Acquaintance and Examples; not to bear the least ill-will against his Prosecutors, who were concern'd in bringing him to Justice; to which he replied, that he understood his Duty very well, tho' so unfortunate as to act contrary to it; and that if he died, he would at the place of Execution discover something to me, which might be an advantage to the Persons concerned.

II. John Brown , Convicted for two Burglaries, was a Seaman for several Years, and served aboard a Merchant Ship; but being addicted to those Vices which too frequently attend such a way of living, followed the bewitching Allurements of sensual Pleasures; to support which Riotous course of Life, being encouraged by some bad Companions, he resolv'd to break open those two Houses, using a Gentlewoman in one of them very barbarously. After Condemnation he behaved himself very sullenly, seem'd nothing concern'd at his approaching end, but smilling said, that he could stare Death in the Face, for he was acquainted with it, and desired to be troubled with no Melancholly Discourse about it. He was put in Mind that this short Punishment of Death will let him into another Life which is to follow, where the Punishment will be Eternal for its duration, and infinitely more dreadful for the Torments of it, than can either be exprest or conceived; that they who will not believe that there is an Hell, shall surely feel it; and when by feeling the most exquisite Pains thereof, they come to be convinced to their cost that there is one; they shall then be for ever incapable to bear it, or to get out of it. To which he returned this Answer, that he desired the Prayers of all good Persons, but that he cared not much at present to be entertained with such Discourse. Thus he continued in a sullen obstinate Humour till the dead Warrant was Sign'd; then he began to relent a little, to attend patiently to good Advice; then he confest that he was Guilty of both Facts, as also of several others, but declin'd mentioning any particulars; and indeed he is not so sensible of his State as could be wished.

III. Thomas Badge , alias Brown , Condemn'd for the same, Confest that he had been formerly Guilty of several ill Practices, that he had received Mercy, and was one of those who lately broke out of the Prison, but seem'd to deny this Fact. His Life was very irregular, having for a considerable time associated himself to bad Company, tho' his Friends frequently and earnestly entreated him to bid adieu to such detestable ways, and persue those things which wou'd conduce to his present as well as Peace. To which wholesome Advice a deaf Ear; bad Company having such him, as to prevail with him

those Actions; which now seem'd odious and abominable in his Sight. He lamented his unhappy Condition, often reflecting on his Ill-spent Life, calling his bad Actions to remembrance, and expressing a deep sorrow for them. I hope he is Penitent

IV. Thomas Alleson , Convicted for Burglary; confest that he was an old Offender, had lately received Mercy also, but yet would take no Warning. He was formerly a Labourer , and workt very hard for his living, but growing idle and so reduc'd to want, to extricate himself out of those pressing Circumstances, he listned to bad Advice; he added, he died in Charity with all Men, and as an Instance, freely and heartily forgave the Evidence, who was the first Person that seduced him; and persuaded him to be of his Gang.

On Friday the 19th of April, 1700. these two Persons were convey'd from Newgate to Tyburn , John Larkin , alias Young , who was drawn in a Sledge, and Thomas Alleson carried in a Cart; and being tied up, Young applied himself to the Ordinary, and told him he could not dye in Peace till he had acquainted him with one thing, which he had hitherto conceal'd, which was this; Being in Newgate with Mr. Charles Newey , who was lately convicted for Felony, as also Pillor'd and Fined for Suborning an Evidence to Swear falsely, he prevailed with him for a Sum of Money to write a very Scurrilous Libel, entituled The Case of Capt . Charles Newey , which he promised to Print speedily, containing very notorious Falshoods, and Scandalous Reflections on the Lord chief Baron and the other Judges who tried him, the Recorder, several Justices of the Peace, and some others, for which he heartily begged their Pardon, and said, it was so malicious and base, that he thought none would presume to Print it. Then he turned to the People, and desired them to take warning by his Punishment, that his most just and lamentable Death might terrifie more from continuing in their Sins, than the example of his evil Life had led into Sin. He also exhorted them to be horribly afraid of the sad end of evil Doers, and of the Vengeance of God, which is oft-times swift but when 'tis most slow, will be sure at last, and utterly insupportable to all those who will not take care in time to appease him by amendment of Life. He was desired to confess his Crime for which he died, but he denied it; then he pray'd thus, O Almighty and most Righteous Judge, to thee it belongeth to take Vengeance, and to me to suffer it. I must clear thy Justice, and confess I have my Deserts, and have none but my self to blame for this shameful Death. But now O Lord, when the Sword of Vengeance is unsheathed, and is come to the stroke, do thou stand by me and comfort me. Deal not thou with me as I have done with thee: But tho' I have basely and wretchedly forsaken thee all my Life, yet leave me not I humbly entreat thee in this my last Hour. Save me O God! a great and wretched, but a penitent contrite Sinner, In thy Merits do I trust, O Blessed Jesus! save me who am chief among Sinners, and rescue my trembling and departing Soul from eternal Misery. Then turning himself, he took a decent leave of all the Spectators, and prayed God to make them all the better by the sadness of the Sight; returning Thanks to the Ordinary for the pains he had taken with him, and his Prayers, desiring the continuance of them in his last Agonies. Tho. Alleson behaved himself very well, confest that he had been an old Offender, and therefore suffered deservedly. They had time allowed for private Prayer, and then the Cart drew away, they were turned off.

John Brown and Tho. Badge are to be Executed to Morrow near Stepny , where the Fact was Committed.

Dated April 19, 1700.

John Allen , Ordinary .

RObert Young , alias Larkin , delivered a Paper to the Reverend Mr. Ordinary, wherein he acknowledges his great Crime in accusing the Right Honourable the Earl of Marlburough, the Earl of Salisbury, the Right Reverend Father in God the Lord Bishop of Rochester, the Lord Cornbury. Sir Basil Firebrass , which Paper will be published, together with several other Papers of his Life, next Munday Morning. Printed for E. Mallet.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

AT the farthest House on the Left-hand, in Blew Ball Court, in Salisbury-Court, Fleet-street, (being the first Court on the Left-hand, over against Salisbury-Square) Gentlemen, &c. may have an Interest made to invest them in Places suitable to their several Qualities and Capacities. We have now several considerable Places in Town and Country to dispose of, some to be acted by Deputies. We have also several of a lesser value, viz. 80 l. 70 l. 60 l. 50 l. 40 l. a Year Sallaries, for those that Write and cast Accompts well. We also speedily and Faithfully Sollicite all sorts of Causes depending in the Courts of Law and Equity, Treasury, Admiralty, Navy Office, &c. We Buy and Sell Estates, Houses, Ground-Rents, &c. Those who apply themselves to us shall have no reason to suspect being imposed upon; for our chief Undertaker is a Person of Quality, well known to many of the Nobility and Gentry, who has been pleased to employ some near Relations of Mr. A. deceased (the Original Undertaker of this Business in England) For Particulars we refer to our Bills published at most Coffee-houses, or any Gentleman may be furnished with them at our House.

WHereas Mr. Edmund Searle Deceased, was famous for Curing Deafness , and likewise his Son, who practis'd several Years in the same Method. This is to Advertise all Persons, That Graves Overton is the only Servant Living that ever was Instructed by the said Edmund Searle .

I entreat a favourable Construction from all Persons, for exposing my self in Print, which I had not done but to Vindicate my self, in answer to a Scandalous Publication by an ignorant malicious Woman, who was but a Servant Maid at the time I was daily assisting in those extraordinary Cures. I give my daily Attendance at my House in Giltspur-street , alias Pye-Corner , at the Sign of the Hand and Ear . I hope this may be caution to prevent her doing farther prejudice by her Ignorance in this Affair. I have a Head-Pill which hath cured several Persons who have been Deaf many Years, as can be attested by my Neighbours: Also a Cephalick Snuff.

B. Lilburn, that lately Lived on Ludgate-hill, next to the Kings Arms Tavern near Fleet-Bridge, now Lives at the Golden-Board, and Ball, near the Globe-Tavern, in little Moor-fields, near great Moor-gate, up one Pair of Stairs. Who maketh and selleth, (and has done above 16 Years) the Water for taking away the Freckels, Pimples, Worms, and Morphew in the Face: With Elixir Salutis, Balsamum Vite, Tinctura Vitoe, Waters and Ointments for the Eyes, and Ointments for fore Nipples; Ointments for the Rickets, Burns, Scalds, Wounds, Aches, Strains, &c. Powders, Dentrifices, Elixirs, Edences, Oils, Spirits, &c. both for Oinament, and Curing most Distempers incident to Humane Bodies; where you may have Advice as well as Medicines, likewise Judgment upon Urine.

LONDON: Printed for E. Mallet, at the Hat and Hawk in Bride lane, where any Person, may have Advertisements Inserted in this Paper.

