THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the TWO MALEFACTORS, Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the 1st of JUNE, 1752.

BEING THE Fifth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Honble Thomas Winterbottom , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER V. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LII.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer, Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable THOMAS WINTERBOTTOM , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London , Sir THOMAS DENNISON , Knt . Sir THOMAS BURNET , Knt . Mr. BARON LEGGE, RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the City of London, and County of Middlesex, at Justice Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Thursday the 14th, Friday the 15th, and Saturday the 16th of May, in the twenty-fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign, James Brown , otherwise Thompson , and Maurice Salisbury were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

The Behaviour of these two poor unfortunate Persons has been decent and quiet. They were very attentive, and appeared devout when at Prayers and in Chapple; and as far as might be discovered by their Behaviour, Salisbury always shewed Marks of Contrition and Sorrow to the last; but Brown turned out a most hardened Miscreant.

On Wednesday the 28th of May, the Report of the two Malefactorsimages of original pages 3 and 4 missing was made to the Lords Justices in Council by Mr. Recorder, when they were pleased to order the said James Brown , otherwise Thompson , and Maurice Salisbury for Execution on Monday the 1st of June.

1. JAMES BROWN , otherwise THOMPSON was indicted for returning from Transportation before the Expiration of his Time .

2. MAURICE SALISBURY , was indicted for returning from Transportation before the Expiration of his Time .

1. Maurice Salisbury , was an unfortunate Youth of tender Years, who, had he lived till August next, would have arrived at the 20th Year of his Age. He was born at Crookborne in Somersetshire , of Parents, who, though not in very good Circumstances, lived in Repute among their Neighbours, and brought up this Youth in a tender and affectionate Manner, giving him such Education was in their Power; when he was about ten Years of Age, his Father, who was a Taylor , began to initiate his Son into his Trade, that thereby he might be able to get a Livelihood; and for three or four Years after, his Time was divided between going to School and learning his Father's Business. He was always looked upon as a sober, quiet Youth, very tractable and diligent in Business, not given to Idleness, or Wickedness, till seduced by the evil Counsel and Conversation of some of his Companions. And tho' they were bad themselves, he had not Maturity of Judgment sufficient to discover it, till too late, when, by one of them in particular, he was directed and encouraged to do that which led to his Ruin.

He removed with his Parents when very young to Frampton , near Dorchester , and there lived and went on in his Business very well; and frequently was he employed (as the Custom of the Country is) to go abroad to Farmers Houses, &c. to work for so much a Day, with Meat and Drink, and was always esteemed and honest Lad and well respected. At last, being one Day at a Farmer's House, at work by himself, mending Cloaths for the Family; while they were in the Fields about their Business, he says, that a Man-Servant of the House, whose Name was Tizzard, came into Breakfast, about Nine o' Clock in the Morning, and that they breakfasted together upon what the House afforded. During which Time, their Conversation turned upon what had happened the Day before, which they two and some others had made a Holiday of, and been merry together. Among other Things, Salisbury said, he had spent all his Money, and must next pagenow set close to work for more, and so they parted, each one as he apprehended to their several Callings; but soon after Salisbury was settled to work, Tizzard came in again, and after some idle Chat, told him, that he knew how he might get Money very easily. Salisbury naturally replied, How? To which Tizzard, after some little Hesitation, answered, That the Maid's Box stood in a certain Place, and pointed out the Room. What then, says Salisbury? Tizzard told him that she saved up all her Money, and that besides she had other Things of Value, which she left always in that Box, which was without a Lock. He says, for the present he looked upon the Fellow with Distain, his Mind being not yet corrupted, and told him, he wondered at his Impudence to propose such a Thing to him, saying, Do you take me for a Thief? I enquired of him if Tizzard, or others of his Company the Day before, had been suspected of being bad Men. He answered me, No, but that he found afterwards, his Master was obliged to turn him away for some Piece of Thievery, which he catch'd him in, and by so doing, saved him perhaps from being hanged, tho' what became of him afterwards he knew not.

This temptation thrown in his Way, when he was low in Pocket, proved afterwards too strong for his former honest Resolutions, and the Devil was very busy with him to prompt him on to the Loss of his Innocence. He thought of what he had told him for an Hour or two, and forbore to put in Practice what Tizzard provoked him to. But, at length, after the Family had been in to Breakfast, and gone out to work again, he was induced by the Opportunity of seeing the Coast quite clear, and Nobody in the House, to go up Stairs, and search for the aforesaid Box. The first Time he went up, he came down again without Success, not finding the Box, and then the family came Home to Dinner before he attempted it again. After Dinner, as 'twas a busy Time, they all went out again; and then he, after a while, having an Itch at the Booty, went up Stairs once more; where, after a more diligent Search, he found the Box, and took out of it two gold Rings and some Money; and what else he found easy of Conveyance, he put into his Pockets, went down Stairs, and returned to his Work again, as if nothing had been the Matter, and no Mischief done.

The Family coming Home from Work in the Evening, found him there at his Work, and after a while, he went Home to his Father's unsuspected, nothing as yet being missing in the House.But by-and-by, when the poor Maid-Servant came to look into her Box, to her great Surprize, lo! all the Fruits of her Labours and Industry were gone, she knew not how. Much Enquiry was made, but Nobody knew any Thing of the Matter. All the People that belonged to the Farmer's House accounted for their Time, how they spent the Day. At last, the very Man who laid the Temptation in his Way, and without whose Information he had, perhaps, never thought of a Thing of this Kind, began to raise a Suspicion in the Family upon Salisbury; but, as they could not fix the Robbery upon him, there was no Noise made about it for a few Days, till himself gave Cause of Suspicion, by absconding from his Father's House, and the Town.

Upon this, there was a Warrant obtained to take him up upon Suspicion, and in about five or six Days afterwards, he says, he was apprehended, and committed to Dorchester Gaol . He was for this Fact tried at the March Assizes at Dorchester , in the Year 1750, and being found guilty of stealing as above, received Sentence of Transportation for seven Years. According to this Sentence, he was ordered on the first of May following to be sent on Board the Ship Catharine then laying in Appledore Pool , near Biddeford , in the County of Devon , and on the third, he was put on Board the said Ship in Order to be transported.

Application was made to a Gentleman in the Neighbourhood, to do what lay in his Power to serve him under those unhappy, tho' merited Circumstances, that he might be treated as favourably as the Nature of the Case would admit. The Gentleman, out of Compassion to the tender Years of the Convict (then not 18) was pleased to intercede so far, as to desire, that he might be sent Abroad with a Master of a Ship, that might use him as kindly as might be, and that he might not be sold for a Slave, when he arrived at some of the Colonies, or Plantations Abroad, and the Request was complied with by the Owner of the Vessel.

Sometime after this, the Owner came on Board the Catharine , where Salisbury was, and enquiring for him, he was called up upon the Deck, and exhibited to him as he desired. He says, he had then the Offer made him to go on Board the Grace to Newfoundland, if he liked it; but he chose rather to go to Virginia in the Catharine , which he accordingly did, at the Direction of the Owner, and the Consent of the Master of the said Ship. The Master was ordered to take Care of him, which he did, and kept him on Board, not as a common Convict Transport, but he says, he served as a Sailor , and sometimes as Cook , during the wholeVoyage. The 14th of July 1751, the Ship set sail from Biddeford , and after a pleasant Voyage came to Anchor in Virginia on the 16th of September. There the Cargo was unloaded, and he remained there with the Ship, &c. till the 27th of August following. The Ship then having taken in her Lading of Tobacco, set sail again for England , Salisbury still on Board, as he says, and arrived safe again at Appledore, in the Month of October last. During all which Time, he acted in Capacity of a Sailor , and sometimes as Cook , from their going out from Appledore , to the Return of the Ship thither again.

While the Ship lay there, he says, he went on Shore several Times at Biddeford on Errands for the Master, unmolested, and whatever was wanting for his Use, or the Ships, he was generally the Messenger; but, he says, the Master put him upon too hard Duty, scarce ever letting him stand still; and besides, let him go barefoot backwards and forwards upon the Beach, which, when he complained of, he met with rough Language, and was told, that as he was a Convict Transport, he must submit to any Thing without murmuring, or it might be the worse for him. Under these Circumstances, upon Reflection, he did not choose to live; as they had not made a Slave of him Abroad, he had Resolution enough not to be made one at Home; so taking the French Leave, he left the Ship and that Part of the Country, and came on Foot to London .

In the Month of November last he came to London , and having a Brother living in or near Old-Street , he found Means to prevail with a Taylor in the Neighbourhood to take him into his House and Service, and he continued working at this Trade from that Time, and is said to have been very industrious and assiduous in his Business.

But, sometime in March, (which seems to have been a fatal Month to him) Maurice Salisbury was taken up, and committed by the Right Honourable the Lord-Mayor, on Oath of John Amory , on Suspicion of stealing 4 Silver Spoons, 1 Piece of Coral set in Silver, 4 Silver Buckles, and 2 Guineas, the Goods of the said John, in his Dwelling-house, Feb. 19. For this he was indicted, and took his Trial at the Sessions held in the Old-Bailey in April last, and was acquitted. But, Information being made to the Court, that Salisbury had returned from Transportation, he was ordered to remain in Newgate till May Sessions. Upon his being indicted, and brought upon Trial, one Thomas Fisher produced a Copy of the Record of his Conviction at Dorchester Assizes, March 12, 1750, for stealing 2

Gold Rings, and five Guineas and a half, in the Dwelling-house of Sampson Roper ; that he was convicted of stealing, but acquitted of the Burglary, and ordered for Transportation for 7 Years.

Daniel Shaw , (who had been his School-fellow) informed the Court, that he had known him from a Child, that he saw him tried for the beforementioned Fact, that he was cast, and ordered for Transportation; that he was the Person mentioned in that Record, the Copy of which was read in Court, and that he had seen him at large near Old-Street Church .

John Amory also, the Prosecutor of him in April Sessions, said, he had seen him at large since that Time the Record set forth, in his own House. His Conviction, and the Identity of his Person thus being proved, the Jury found him guilty.

From the Time of his Conviction, to the last Moment of his Life, he behaved as if he really had a proper Sense of that unhappy Situation, to which his own Follies and Faults had brought him. When I came at first to speak to him, he owned he had deserved to die; but said, there were some Circumstances in his Case, which might admit of Mercy, mentioning the Affair as above, with regard to his returning, only giving the Story a greater Plausibility, than in reality it would bear. For, upon Enquiry, he had misrepresented the Case; and tho' he was brought back in the same Ship which carried him over to Virginia , yet he did not deny, but that he was sensible of being liable to Death, if seen at large, and had some Dread of it, at Times, when he thought of that Matter. However, he was so infatuated as to flatter himself, that as he was resolved to behave well in all Capacities of Life that should come within his Sphere, and to give Offence to any Man, no one would bear so hard upon him as to betray him. And, as they were but few in this Part of the Country who were acquainted with his having been transported, and they Countrymen, and, as he thought, Friends, he apprehended, there was very little Reason for him to think he should ever be called upon to answer for the Offence of returning.

Being very young, he was willing to have lived a while longer, tho', since he found all Hopes lost, he has said, it might have been worse for him if he had: And so he prudently put himself upon Resignation to the Justice of his Fate, and the Will of God. If ever was a true Penitent in this Situation, I believe he might be looked upon as such. He was very constant all the Time he lay under Sentence of Death, in reading The Help to a true Penitent; and, as far as Man may judge of another's Behaviour, he not only read, but endeavouredto make himself a Copy of the Original, with which he was conversant. He was a Youth of a tender and flexible Nature, of good natural Parts, and Understanding; and being sensible of his Fall, he endeavoured to rise again on the Wings of sincere Repentance, and a true Faith in the Merits of Christ Jesus.

2. James Brown , otherwise Thompson , aged about 37 Years, was born in the North of Scotland , between Edinburgh and Carlisle , of Parents that lived in some Repute, and would have brought him up in a handsome Manner, and qualified him for any genteel Profession or Business, had he had any Docity in himself, or Inclination to Virtue and Goodness. He was sent to School, but to no Purpose; for no Impression could be made on him. When at School he was full of Play, and idle to the last Degree; no Correction nor Persuasion could bring him to apply himself to Learning. He says, he believes he could read a little formerly, but Disuse had effaced the Idea of every Letter of the Alphabet.

As he grew up a hardy and robust young Fellow, 'twas Time to think of putting him out somehow into the World; at the Age of about 14, he says, he was bound Apprentice to a Brazier in the City of Edinburgh ; for a while he behaved tolerably well, under the Instructions of his Father, and the Discipline of his Master; but this did not last long, for Work soon grew as disagreeable to him as going to School before had done. He was unhappily of such a Disposition, that nothing intended for his Good, could please him, and his own wicked Temper hurried him on to seek his own Ruin. He made shift however to rub on with his Master for about four Years, he being willing to put up with his bad Behaviour upon Account of his Father, who was his Friend and intimate Acquaintance. He did not hold out quite the four Years, before he run away from his Master, and all his Friends; and abandoned himself to all Manner of Vice and Debauchery. He did several bad Things before he left Scotland , from whence he went to Ireland , and became acquainted with some very bad Fellows there, with whom having committed divers Robberies in that Kingdom, he was obliged, at last, to quit Ireland , and fly to another Part of the World.

Having already sold the two Kingdoms of Scotland and Ireland , he came to England , where he behaved no better than he had done before; but grew worse, and went on till he arrived at the highest Pitch of Wickedness and Villainy.

Drury-Lane , and about Covent-Garden , were the first Haunts he got into after his coming to Town; where he wanted not for Choice ofCompany as bad as himself, nor was he a long Time before he singled out some of the worst of the Crew of Robbers that infest those Places, to whom he, without much Hesitation, join'd himself, and added one to the Number.

He went on in full Career of Wickedness, and committed several Robberies about Town, till he was in great Danger of being apprehended, having by his Feats of Roguery made himself very public and remarkable. But he luckily bethought himself, and resolving to get into Disguise to screen himself, he listed for a Soldier in the First Regiment of Guards during the late War, and was soon after sent over into Flanders .

Being a very stout robust Fellow, six Feet high, 'twas indeed the best Way he could be employed, being of a Size and Constitution fit to endure all the Toils and Hardships of a Campaign. He says, he was at the three memorable Battles of the last War, at Dettingen , Fountenoy , and Lafeldt . He was in the Army during the late War, and till after the unhappy Troubles in Scotland, when, he says, he got himself discharged, tho' 'tis rather believed, that he deserted, and might have suffered Death, had he been discovered upon that Account. But, as his Business chiefly lay in secret sculking Places, and was done under the Shadow of the Night, he escaped that Rock to split on another. Wives he had many, all of the Rank of common Prostitutes. One was a Relict of one of his old Companions, sometime since executed. Another has been tried for Forgery, and is liable to be convicted; and several other of this Sort have been always made his Bosom Friends.

With one of these, he says, after he left the Army, he retired into Hog-Lane , near St. Giles's in the Fields , and lived, working at his Trade, as a Brazier ; but 'tis plain, he could not be very fond of Work now, after so long Time spent in Idleness, and in the Army, who, in his younger Days, could not be persuaded to be industrious, tho' at that Time he might have had a Prospect of getting an honest Livelihood by his Business.

And, tho' tis said of him above, that he was in the Army till the War was over; yet, Is not this to be taken as if he continued always in it? For, after he had served some Time in Flanders , &c. he grew tired of that too, deserted, and came to England , to follow his old Practices. And this he did, till he was taken up for committing a Robbery in October 1748. At this Time he went by the Name of William Thompson only, and at this Time he was not discharged the Army, but appeared in Regimentals. The Circumstance of this Robbery was,

Thompson met 2 Sailors at Holborn-Bridge , and they resolved among themselves to go a robbing. So they all went together to Mr. Smith's, a Goldsmith, in St. Bride's Parish , and Thompson introduced 2 Sailors to buy a Pair of Buckles, which, while they were bartering for, he stole two odd silver Buckles, and a Dollar, and went to Duke's-Place , in Order to sell them among the Jews. But Thompson exposing the Things to Sale before the Constable of Duke's-Place, at the Taylor's-Arms , he suspected them to be stolen; and as Thompson could not give a good Account of himself, and how he came by them, the Constable carried him that Night to the Poultry- Compter , and next Day before an Alderman, and by him was committed to Newgate . In December Sessions following, he was indicted by the Name of William Thompson , and was tried on Suspicion of stealing 2 Silver Buckles, and a Dollar, val. 18 s. the Property of James Smith , October 14. The Jury found him guilty 4 s. 10 d. and the Sentence of the Court was, that he should be transported for 7 Years. Accordingly, he was in a short Time after put on Board a Ship in the River Thames, bound for Virginia; which, meeting with very bad Weather in her Passage outwards was cast away. But Thompson among some others, had then the Fortune to escape with his Life, and soon after getting his Liberty, he had an Opportunity of returning to his old Courses, which he did not fail to do.

He no sooner found himself at Liberty, than he returned to his old Haunts, and associated with the same Sort of People he had before done. Neither his Escape from the Dangers of the Sea, nor the Thoughts of evading the Punishment the Laws intended to inflict upon him, were of any avail, to reduce this profligate Man to a Sense of any Thing good. Neither was God in any of his Thoughts, nor were the Duties of Society of any Use to prevail with him to forbear to be a common Nusance, and Disturber of the Peace and Quiet of his Fellow-Subjects. Robberies and House-breaking became again his Employment, whenever Occasion and Opportunity presented, and as he was a stout, resolute Fellow (because his Case was desperate) he never wanted those who would join themselves to him, and assist in any of his desperate Undertakings.

And thus he went on again, till he had committed another Robbery in April 1749, upon which he was immediately taken sculking in a very scandalous Manner. And the Case was as follows: On the 17th of April, he, with a Woman, one of his Trulls, went into a Shop in St. Giles's in the Fields , and put her upon buying a small Quantity of Cloth

of 12 d. or 1 s. 6 d. val. in Order to have an Opportunity of stealing some more, which had the desired Effect; tho' in the long Run it pleased God he should pay for it dearly. While she was making the Bargain, he took a Piece of Linnen Cloth feloniously, and went away with it to an Alehouse in the Neighbourhood, where he drank a Dram of Rum, and left the Cloth, going away in a great Hurry without paying for the Rum. He returned to the Shop, where he left the Woman, and enquiring if she had bargained, they went away together. By this Time the Piece of Linnen Cloth was missed, and being pursued by Women, he went to the House, where he had left the Cloth, thinking to have fetched it away. But as they were close at his Heels, he run thro' the House into the Back-Yard, and made for the Necessary-House; where there being Somebody before him, he was disappointed, and hid himself behind it, till a Constable came, and apprehended him.

For this Fact he was indicted at the Old-Bailey in May Sessions 1749, and tried for stealing 15 Yards of Linen Cloth, Value 15 s. the Goods of Elizabeth Ball , Spinster, in the Shop of the said Elizabeth, April 17th. He was now indicted by the Name of James Brown , otherwise Thompson , but tho' he had changed his Name, he certainly was the same identical Person, convicted in December then last past. The Jury upon this Indictment found him guilty 4 s. 10 d. and the Sentence of the Court was to be transported for 7 Years.

According to this second Sentence of Transportation he was actually transported to Virginia , where he staid not long. Being terrified and affrighted, he says, at the Labour the People transported undergo Abroad, he resolved not to have any Share with them; 'twas what did not at all agree with his Constitution. Accordingly, as soon as Opportunity presented, he embraced it to make his Escape; and, together with one or two more, cut a small Vessel from her Moorings by Night, and getting her without the Cape of Virginia , carried her to South-Carolina , and sold her. The Purchase Money of her afforded him Subsistance, while he staid there, which was till he had an Opportunity of getting a Passage; and he says, he came in a Ship, that wanted Hands for the Run Home, in which he was employed before the Mast, and had so much per Month Wages, when he came to England.

On Thursday the 19th of March last the Ship came to an Anchor in the River Thames, and as soon as he had received his Money for the Run Home, he left her, and returned again to his old Friends and Companions, or picked up new ones, and

began his old Tricks of Debauchery and Villainy. Soon after he was seen at large, and marked by some People, who make it their Business to look after, and endeavour to rid the Town of such Miscreants, whom no Laws can prevent from doing Mischief, so long as they have it in their Power to do it.

In April Sessions last, he was tried for returning from Transportation, after the Order for being transported upon the Conviction for the Robbery of James Smith , December the 12th, 1748, but as there was no Evidence to prove the Identity of his Person, he was acquitted; nor did he go out of the Court, without the Advice of the Court, to get off the Ground, and to take Care how he came there again; but 'twas all in vain, for tho' he was let loose but on Saturday, April the 11th, when the Sessions ended on the Middlesex Side; on Monday the 13th, he, in Company with two others unknown, and not yet taken, committed a Robbery in St. Clement's Church-Yard , which occasioned an Advertisement of a Pocket-Book lost, wherein were several Parcels of loose Diamonds, and two French Letters, offering One Hundred Pounds to the Person that should produce them. This Affair was also represented in one of the Evening Papers, viz. 'Last Monday Night, at 9 o'Clock, Mr. Ardesoif, a Jeweller, lately come from Paris, going to sup with his Brother in Fleet-Street. was attacked by three Footpads: He making Resistance, one of them called to the other to stab him, which they did in two Places, but it is hoped will not prove mortal. They robbed him of his Pocket-Book, in which was a considerable Parcel of Diamonds, to the Amount of Fifteen Hundred Pounds. Before he went from his Lodgings, he left his Money, and Watch, but forgot to leave his Pocket-Book, which was the most material Affair to take Care of.'

The Personr before-mentioned, who hunt after such Pests of Society as he was, were determined however to have him again, if he staid in England; knowing they were other Causes of bringing him to the Fate he had so long deserved. Accordingly, they watched his old Haunts, and because he had threatened them, they were the more diligent to take him, that Men might not have so dangerous a Fellow in their Way; and soon after this Robbery in St. Clement's Church-Yard , they took him impudently standing at an Alehouse, and tho' he had a naked Knife in his Pocket, yet Providence suffered him not to dare to do any Mischief with it, as he had threatned, but he submitted tamely to be taken, tho' he knew his Life must pay for it.

In April Sessions he was indicted by the Name of William Thompson , otherwise Tare , otherwise Smith , for returning as before-mentioned; but being again committed to Newgate, he was in May Sessions last indicted, and tried by the Name of James Brown , otherwise Thompson , for returning from Transportation, after his Conviction for the Robbery of Elizabeth Ball , of fifteen Yards of Linnen Cloth, May 13, 1749. When the Identity of his Person being proved to the Satisfaction of the Court and the Jury, he was capitally convicted.

He was a Man of a very insolent and resolute Temper; talk he could, butwithoutSense or Meaning, and as for thinking, he was not capable of it to any good Purpose, for himself, or any Body else.

Soon after his Conviction, it took Air some how or other, I can't well say how, that this Fellow was concerned in the Robbery before-mentioned in St. Clement's Church-Yard , which he made no Scruple to own; but it was only upon this Motive, that he was induced to own it, thinking to procure an Alteration of his Sentence from Death to Transportation; making a Merit of it, that in Case he returned the Diamonds to the right Owner, his Life should be saved; but tho' the Gentleman who lost them would gladly have recovered them again almost at any Rate, yet did he not attempt to flatter him with any such Hopes, finding he was too notorious an Offender to be spared.

Many Applications were made to him upon this Head, to persuade him to make a Discovery were the Diamonds were, that the Owner might be restored to his Right, but to no Effect. He pretended, that he designed the Gentleman should have them, but every Day changed his Tale, and resolved to deceive every one that mentioned it to the last. He made several Promises of so doing, but kept not one, and died without making that Restitution, which he owned was in his Power to do; and which he promised the Gentlemen and his Friends he surely would do, and that not all the World should put him out of that Way of thinking. But the contrary appeared to be his Intention in the Event.

Whether therefore he was a Roman Catholick, or a Protestant, it matters not. What can be hoped for a Wretch who persisted thus to the last in carrying on the Villainy he had begun? Christian Charity would engage a Man to go a great Way to save a Soul, to wish well to the most obdurate, with Respect to a future State; but how such a one as this could be assured of Salvation I wont pretend to say. God only knows what shall be hereafter. That he was concerned in the Robbery is very certain, and as sure it is that he had the Pocket-Book, if himself might be believed. For he said he burned the Book himself, and some Papers that were therein, written in a foreign Language. By which Confession, that Gentleman who suffered the Loss is convinced, that he was one of them that robbed him, and took away the PocketBook and Diamonds, &c.

And, no Wonder he could thus go on all the Days of his Life, and take Pleasure in doing Injuries to Particulars, when he seemed to express himself regretted, that he had not destroyed a whole Community, if his own Words have any Sense or Meaning in them. For, if I am rightly informed, it was but two Days before he died, that, talking of his being in the Army, he express'd himself in these Terms, viz.

"I am

"sorry that I did not betray a Pass,

"which lay in my Power, to the French,

"which would have ruined our whole

"Army; adding these Words, If I

"had done it, I might have rode in a

"Chariot in France."

These two unhappy Sufferers of the same Fate, were as different in their Nature and Disposition, as they were in the Degrees of Villainy. And, I believe they are the only two that have suffered together for the Offence of returningfrom Transportation, without other Company. But these Examples, no more than others, 'tis to be feared, will be efficacious to prevent such Profligates from the like too frequent exposing their Lives to the Resentment of the Laws in this Case made and provided.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Monday the 1st Day of this Instant June, about Nine o'Clock in the Morning, Maurice Salisbury , and James Brown , otherwise Thompson , were conveyed from Newgate to the Place of Execution in a Cart. After the Executioner had tied the Ropes to the fatal Tree, some Time was spent in recommending their departing Souls to the Almighty's Protection, in the Name of Jesus Christ, and thro' his Merits. Salisbury behaved very decently, and shewed great Marks of Contrition, weeping heartily. Thompson not quite so well; but just before the Cart drew from under him, he begged of all the People to pray for his poor Soul.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

