THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and last dying Words of the Three Malefactors, Executed at Tyburn on Wednesday the 11th, of this Instant November, 1724.

AT the King's Commission of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery, &c. holden at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , and beginning on Wednesday the 14th of October last, (before the Right Honourable Sir Peter Delme , Knt . Lord Mayor , &c. Mr. Baron Price; Mr. Justice Tracy; and Mr. Sergeant Raby) six Men and one Woman received Sentence of Death; but of these, four received His MAJESTY's Reprieve; and three were order'd to Suffer.

Before their Execution, they were instructed from the following Words, Truly the Light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the Eyes to behold the Sun.

But if a Man live many Years and Rejoyce in them all; yet let him remember the Days of Darkness, for they shall be many. All that cometh is Vanity, Eccles. 11. 7, 8.

Whence we took occasion to consider,

FIRST, We consider'd the Clemency and Bounty of the Creator toward his Creatures, in affording them Light, and the Delights of Life, and requiring but their Obedience in return for his Comforts; and their Adoration, when they observe those mighty Luminaries that adorn the Skies, and relieve a Number of earth-like Globes, which are regular in their waiting upon those Lights, to give existence to their own Times and Seasons. More than a Monster, or an unnatural Birth, should we admire the Heavens the Works of Gods Hands, the Moon and the Stars which he hath appointed; and thereby be conducted to the Praise of him, who poureth his Benefits upon us.

FARTHER, We observ'd more particularly, how far Men may indulge in the Delights that lye before 'em. That the retiring to Desarts

could not be virtuous; or the flying from the Power of doing Good, to avoid the Temptation of doing Ill. That God does not command us to avoid all Meat, all Wine, all Recreation, nor to be prouder than our Neighbours, beause we enjoy our selves less. That God does not command us, icely to avoid the usual Cloathing of our Native Country; nor order those who condemn all Rules and Ceremonies in Others, to Speak, Walk and Dress by the strictest Forms and Rules of their own; showing by an artificial Plainness, but a more exact and labour'd Pride. God has in one of his Works shown us, that we are to be tyed down to bare Necessaries only; The Birds being created to please the Ear, the Fruits to the Taste, and the whole Earth cover'd with an enamel'd Green, delight and ease the Sight, to demonstrate, that the Creator delights in ghting his Creatures.

T. farther, while Men indulge in innocent Amusements, let them remember a Death and Judgment; that the greatest Strength must fade, and the Voice of Joy give way to Groans: When the Light will be sweet no more, and the Talk of Friends no longer able to Chear.

And this, Tho' a Man should live many Years, and rejoyce in them all. The Good and Bad shall meet with their Reward at last. The Lord is not slack (as some Men count slackness) but is long-suffering, not willing that any should Perish, but that all should come to Repentance. But the Day of the Lord will come as a Thief in the Night, when the Heavens shall pass away with a great Noise, and the Elements shall melt with fervent heat; and the Earth also, and the Works therein shall be burnt up. 2 Pet. 3. 9. Tho' some Sinners escape Misfortunes long, and long avoid the Hand of Justice; Yet where was ever One that render'd himself Rich and Fortunate, and Flourishing by Spoil and Plunder? Tho' long he prospers and lives at large, yet at last he is always trapped in the Work of his own Hands. As Solomon saith, all Sinners who hurry and toil, and display much Vigour and Ingenuity in Vice, do lay wait for their own Blood, they lurk privately for their own Lives. Who but now plainly sees, that while the Plunderer is sweating and fatiguing to annoy Others, he is labouring his own Destruction.

LASTLY, We advised them, among other Things; tho' the Light is sweet, yet, as themselves had plung'd their Bodies into Darkness, to acquiesce in their Condition, nor attempt by Violence to get free from Justice; but rather to regard their Souls, that tho' Bound here, they might hereafter enter into the glorious Liberties of the Sons of God, by a sincere Sorrow for their Sins; not as they had loaded them with Chains, and depriv'd them of the sweet Light of the Sun; but as they had affronted an indulgent God, and Crucifyed Christ a-fresh: By working out their own Salvation with fear and trembling; preparing for the Holy Sacrament, invoking the Spirit of God, &c.

The Behaviour, &c. of these unfortunate People under Sentence of DEATH.

JULIAN, a Black-Boy from India, was indicted for stealing between twenty and thirty Guineas, out of the dwelling House of Mrs. Eliza

beth Turner , and setting Fire to the said House, &c. His Confession before Sir Francis Forbes , and Mr. Turner, showing; That he placed a Candle under a pair of Sheets, and left it Burning, in order to Fire the House, and consume the Inhabitants in it; he was found Guilty.

This Malefactor (who believed he was about Sixteen Years of Age) as he was stollen away from his Parents at Maduras, the Place of his Birth, when he was very Young, retain'd the Pagan Ignorance of his native Country; not having acquired much when with Captain Daws's at Sea, who was his first Master, and presented him to Mrs. Turner. His Ignorance of our Language, made him unable to converse with other Prisoners; but what little they heard him utter to himself, was incoherent, vengeful Words at particular Times. After he was Convicted, he by degrees learnt the Lord's Prayers, before his Execution. He said, that he threw his Lady's Guineas into the Pond, not least he should be discover'd and Hang'd, but least he should be tyed up and Whip'd: But such Punishments he was so far from having felt in England, that he was greatly and constantly Encourag'd, being frequently call'd in to Dance about, and to Sing after his Manner. He one time show'd a great deal of Concern that he had offer'd to Murder the whole Family that had kindly nourished him; and then added, that all he knew of his own Country, or of India was, that he never lived so well any where as here; being used to Eat only Rice and Salt Flesh. When he could repeat the Lord's Prayer, and give his ascent to all the Articles in the Creed, and had heard the Purport of each of the Commands, it was thought proper to Baptize him; which was done by the Name of John. When ask'd, if he desir'd to become a Christian; he answer'd yes, demanding if he was then to become Free?

The wearing Irons, a great while before his Tryal, and his lying on the cold Stones, without any Cloathing but a long ragged Coat, together with the smalness of his Limbs, and the Tenderness of his Nature, render'd him Lame and swell'd, at length deprived him of the Use of his Limbs and the Power of going to the Chapel; so that about the Time that he was told he was included in the Warrant, and must suffer Death. In the Night Time he resolved to lay violent Hands upon himself, and afterwards, he beg'd a Man to lend him a Pen-knife to end his Misery withal; but Mr. Daval made him acquiesce, by Chastising him for his wicked Designs.

2. JOSEPH BLAKE , otherwise Blukeskin, of St. Mary-le-Savoy , was indicted for breaking the House of Mr. Kneebone, in the Night time, and taking thence 108 Yards of Woollen Cloath, value 36 l. and other Things, on the 12 of July last: It appearing that John Sheppard enter'd the House at a Cellar Window (the Bars of which he had prepared, by cutting them a Week before) and opened the Back-Door for Joseph Blake , and William Field , who return'd back loaden with Goods; and that when he was apprehended, he clos'd his Chamber Door and resisted with a Penknife, &c. The Jury found him guilty of the Indictment and he receiv'd Sentence accordingly.

This Prisoner (a Native of London was by his Friends, he said, continued above six Years at School; where William Blewit , was his good Companion. But as he had no particular Business or Employ, he made no Use of his Education.

I am told by his Kinsman, that when very young he robb'd with one Edward Polit , with whom also about three Years ago, he snatch'd a Woman's Pocket in Treadneedle-street , in which was 37 s. in Silver, some Half-pence, a Snuff-box rim'd with silver and gilt within, a Bottle with some Geneva; also a Tortise-shell Tobacco Box, which he sold to a Sailor for 2 s. as he himself swore before the Justice of Peace.

This Malefactor had very uncommon Mis-haps in his ill Practices, being always detected, and frequently sent to Bridewell s, and Work-houses when very young. Afterwards he robb'd with John Lock , Robert Wilkinson , James Lincoln , Val. Carrick , and Daniel Carrol (which Carrol having fled into Ireland , was kill'd as the Thief-Taker was apprehending him.) They robb'd F. Clarke, Esq; one Monday Night, in a Place between Covent-Garden , and Conduit-street , of a Sword and 8 s. in silver: When, a Gentle-woman looking out at her Window, and calling, Wilkinson fir'd a Pistol, and the Bullet, upon her withdrawing, happily graz'd against the Wall. He aided, when they attack'd Captain Langley at the End of Tyburn-Road , going in a Coach to the Camp in Hyde-Park; who so resisted them, that tho' they cut and shot thro' his Coat in many Places, they did not rob him; as himself declar'd, before the Judge. He robb'd besides, with Joseph Rice , who was shot by the Lady Chudley's Footman, as he was climbing a Bank, after they had robb'd the Chariot, behind Buckingham House . But in September, 1721. Wilkinson being apprehended, turn'd Evidence, and inform'd against Joseph Blake , Will. Lock , James Lincoln , Val. Carrick , and Dan. Carrol : Will. Lock , being soon after apprehended, (as having robb'd Mr. Young in his Chair in Great Queen-street , of a gold Watch, &c. in Company with Val. Carrick and J. Molony, who were executed for it,) Lock gave an ampler Information before Justice Blackerby, containing about 70 Robberies, and also the Robbery and Murther of Peter Martin , by the Park Wall, by Wilkinson, Lincoln, Carrick, Carrol and Lock; June 4th: So that Wilkinson was try'd and executed for the Murder, his Information set aside, and Blake therefore allow'd to become an Evidence himself. In his Information, taken before the Justice of the Peace, were inserted 12 Robberies, which he made Oath of; The chief were, as follows: With William Blewet and Rich. Okee , I stop'd a Man on Horseback near Walworth Common , bound him, and took 19 s. and some Copper, a Studded-Case Watch; which Watch was pawn'd by Mrs. Jones Wife of Humphry Jones , and I had 12 s.

Three Weeks before I was taken, With one John Junks , alias Lavie , I took from 4 Passengers in the Camberwell Stage Coach about 20 shillings. And on Sunday last being the 16th of this Instant, (with Matthew Flood ) I robb'd a single Gentleman in a Four-Wheel'd Chaise, about 6 in the Evening, on the Hampstead Road , of a silver Watch, with a black Ribbon, and an Half Broad-Peice. On the 10th of this Instant, we robb'd two Gentlemen with Hunting Caps on, in a Chariot on the Hampstead Road , and took two gold Watches, with Chains and Seals, and out of one Gentleman's Fob, I took a small Ring an Inscription writ round it, having a small Chrystal Stone; also one Guinea in Gold, and about 16 s. The Watches we sold to R. Gretterix of Southwark, for 14 Guineas: Note, Junks laid down his Pistol by the Gentlemen while he committed the Robbery.

With Rich. Okee and John Junks , I stop'd a single Man with a Link, in Fig-Lane , who resisting us, Junks and Okee beat him with their Pistols on the Head, and Brest, and took from him one Guinea, and one Penny, and left him in a

Wounded and sad Condition. Also I with Edward Pollit , and John Junks stop'd a Man on Horseback on Hampstead Road , bound him, and took one Guinea, 12 s. a Great Coat, an Hat, and a colour'd Handkerchief, the Coat, Junks had and sold. Also, with Matthew Flood and John Junks , I robb'd a Gentleman in a Coach, near Tyburn House , of one Guinea, and about 6 s.

Hereupon Junks, Okee and Flood, being apprehended, were Try'd and Convicted of robbing Col. Cope and Mr. Young, in their Chariot, and stealing the Watch that Carrick and Molony were executed for before; Joseph Blake being Evidence against them, when they were executed at Tyburn , Junks and Okee drank there together in a merry way, and said what they had so long expected was then welcome. When again sent back to the Compter, he expected the Rewards for giving Evidence, but had no real Claim thereto, having been so far from voluntarily surrendering himself, that he resisted with the greatest Violence, nor was taken till much wounded, and a large Out in his Head, the Scar of which he now shows. In the Compter, he contain'd above a Year, resisting to be Transported. During that time, Mr. Jonathan Wild paid for the Cure of his Wound, and allow'd him 3 s. 6 d. a Week. But a Woman, who was then in the Compter, and now in Newgate for Debt, (who attempted a Complaint, having some of the Turnkeys lately call'd up and examin'd at the Sessions-House) being acquainted with Joseph Blake , they had leave given to go together to the Fleet: But tho' their Design was to be married (whereby just Debts would have been thrown upon a Man who was to be Transported) they were prevented as the Service of Matrimony was but half perfected. The above allowance being withdrawn he complain'd of it at the Sessions-House, but to no purpose.

At length having obtain'd the Favour of being call'd before the Magistrates, he said, he was able to give Security for his Good Behaviour for seven Years, and could bring two Men who would employ him constantly. The Matter was refer'd by the Court to the Worshipful Sir John Fryer ; And two Gardiners appearing and being bound in Recognisances &c. Blake was set at Liberty. It was then ask'd, how many Sessions might be given Blake before he was to be seen again at the Old Baily? It was answer'd, thrice; and the 3d Sessions after, he was really there at the Bar.

For he immediately return'd again to Plunder. But the most unhappy Robbery, was committed by John Sheppard , and himself, on the Person of J. Pargytar of Hampstead, near the Halfway-house , about 9 at Night on Monday the 20th of July last; from whom they took about 3 s. Blake then strook him on the Head with his Pistol, so thas he fell down into the Ditch and must have been smoother'd, had not Sheppard kept his Head from the Water and Mud, for he was much disguised with Liquor. Form this, the Brightwells, two Brothers, were tryed at the Sessions House in the Old-Baily; and had not a great Number of Men sworn to their being during that Evening upon Duty, they must have been Convicted, by the Evidence? The eldest Brightwell dyed with the Grief of it, a Week after his Enlargement. After this, the most remarkable Robbery that Sheppard and Blake committed, was in the House of Mr. Kneebone; for which Blake was Condemn'd.

When under Condemnation, he did not show a Concern, yet he always made the Responses regularly and never appear'd otherways than serious at Chappel. When he was ask'd if he was prompted by any Person to commit the Violence upon Mr. Jonathan Wild , (who had paid for the healing his Wounds two Years ago, allow'd him Money in the Compter, promis'd him good Books a Coffin, &c.) he answer'd, that none prompted him to that Assault, but a sudden Thought that Moment enter'd into his Mind, or else he should have provided a better Knife, which would have cut off a Head directly: Adding, that he so acted, because that above Person (as he thought) could have obtain'd Transportation for him; as one Man was Condemn'd for the same Offence before, &c.

As his Death approach'd, his Concern did not encrease, but rather abated; and he appear'd more Thoughtless. It was thought he meditated means of escaping, even to the very time of his being Executed.

3. ABRAHAM DAVAL , of St. Martins in the Fields , was Indicted for Counterfeiting and Forging a Lottery Ticket, of 7 l. 10 s. No 39, in the 65th Course of Payment, to Solomon Grimston , of Chaple in Essex , on the 7th of August last. It being firmly believ'd by the Commissioners, that their Names there adjoyn'd, were not writtten by themselves, and also that the Filling up the Ticket was the Prisoner's hand writing; and it appearing that he endorsed it by the Name of A. Deval, at John's Coffee-House , to Mr. Richard Gibbons , and other matters; he was found guilty of the Indictment.

As this Person was older than the Prisoner last mentioned (being near 30) and had somewhat more accustom'd himself to Thought and Consideration, he show'd a greater Gravity and Seriousness in his Deportment. After the Sentence of Death was passed upon him, he argued pretty much that it was illegal, and his Council defective in their Assurance: For it appeared (said he) that I did not Counterfeit or Forge any real Ticket, but only made but a Duplicate, the real Ticket coming to a Mischance and being Torn; which was sworn in Court, to be found in my Brother Parson's Room, as the Searchers look'd over some Quires of Paper, and not deny'd to be the true Ticket for 7 l. 10 s. &c. The notion that it was possible to have so managed the Affair, as to have escaped a capital Punishment, very much Ruffled his Mind for some Time: But recollecting himself afterwards, he said that he had never more than once deserved Death, and he receiv'd it submissively; that a long Life was but a long State of Misery and Trouble; that he was assured nothing could come by Chance; that he might have died with less Disgrace, but perhaps at the same Time less prepared to enter another World; that the Shame of his Death, could not touch him, but only affect his Relations, &c. But he was also very uneasy at his Irons, affirming 'twas illegal to Fetter any Man, because the Act of Parliament orders, that no Pain or Punishment shall be inflicted on Prisoners; accordingly, (continued he) Mr. Layer asserted at his Tryal, that his Fetters ought to be taken off, which Assertion was allow'd good, 'till it was proved he attempted an Escape; But it was answer'd, that Mr. Layer only argued as to the Time of his Tryal, &c. That the Act of Parliament was General and lose, &c.

Before he suffer'd, as the Law appoints, he frankly acknowledg'd that he also counterfeited a Certificate, for 52 l. 12 s, for 7 Blank Lottery Tickets in the Lottery, 1723. as was shrewdly suspected by many, tho' it did not appear; that he actually did, by a plausible Story get Mr John Cog to sell the Certificate to Mr. Robinson. He did not scruple to mention 2 or 3 other Facts of the same kind; owning God's Goodness in taking him off from more, and perhaps greater Offences. His Concern'd encreas'd as his Death drew near, and he not only spent his Time in preparing himself, but took pains in urging the Black Boy to prepare for the Death he was to suffer.

The Behaviour and Confession of these Malefactors at the Place of Execution.

AT the Place of Execution, A. Daval desired the Spectators might be told, that he acknowledged the Fact of which he was convicted, but wished them to consider whither nevertheless, he was not illegally convicted: He requested, all who saw him to be admonish'd by him; said he was very easy at leaving this World, and desired the Spectators Prayers.

Joseph Blake , tho' he was observed by some who saw him, to be disguised in Liquor, and to Reel and Faulter in his Speech at Tyburn , yet was he before he died, sensible of the Crime he therein committed, and as he shed Tears in the Morning at Chapel, so he show'd the same regret immediately before his Death.

This all the Account that can be given, by me T. PURNEY Ordinary and Chaplain.

LONDON : Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bridewell Bridge in Black-Fryers .

