THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On TUESDAY the 9th of this Instant July, 1734.

BEING THE Fourth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir WILLIAM BILLERS , Knt.

Number IV. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXIV.

[Price Six-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

T the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir William Billers , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable Lord Chief Justice Hardwicke; the Honourable Mr. Justice Reeves; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London; and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex,) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, the 24th, 25th and 26th of April, 1734, in the Seventh Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Thomas Evans , William Jellard , William Fletcher , John Green , Peter Merchie ; and two Women, viz. Massey Hornbey , and Elizabeth Hewit , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death. And,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir William Billers , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Justice Probyn; the Honourable Mr. Baron Comyns; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the

said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Thursday and Friday, the 30th and 31st of May, and Saturday the 1st of June, in the Seventh Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Thomas Taverner , alias Cotton , Joseph Hart , Samuel Walker , William Ray and Roger Bow , were by the Jury found guilty of Capital Offences, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

When under Sentence, I exhorted them seriously to repent of all their Sins; and that their Repentance might be sincere, I instructed them, That firm Resolutions of New Obedience were necessary; and that if they resolved to amend their Lives, and become good, they must not except any Duties, for God excepts none; nor reserve to themselves an Allowance of any Sins; for God forbids, and most severely punishes all sorts of Sin. An holy Resolution must know no other Limits but our Duty, and extend to every thing which God has required of us. And this compass of religious Purpose, the Commandment expresly calls for, when we are enjoined to love God with all our Hearts, Luke x. 27. For if we keep a secret Reserve for any Sin, our Heart is given but by halves to God, and is not whole with him. Jehu walk'd not in the Law of God with all his Heart, says the Scripture; and the Proof is given, because he had a Reserve in one Point, and departed not from the Sins of Jereboam, 2 Kings, x. 31. but David says God, followed me with all his Heart, which appeared, because he did that only which was right in mine Eyes, 1 King, xiv. 18. And what is said in this case, the Psalmist expresses more universally of all others, they seek the Lord with their whole Heart, who do no Iniquity, Psalm cxix. 1, 2.

Thus I shew'd them, that their penitential Purposes must be full and intire with God, not sticking at any thing he has enjoined, nor allowing of any thing his Law forbids us: And therefore those Resolvers must not think they have finish'd, but only begun the Work, who have not renounced all, but only the greatest Part, and still reserve themselves a Liberty for some particular Sins, which are deeprooted in their natural Tempers, or closely interwoven with their way of Life and Business; yea, or for some particular times, and Acts of any Sin, resolving against it in all

Cases, save only when 'tis powerfully recommended by some great Temptations; whilst they resolve thus by halves, they must needs perform and obey by halves too, &c.

I shew'd to them the Original of Right and Property; and that as God did not love a natural Chaos, much less did he approve of a moral one; but if Theft and Robbery was allow'd of, then all the Policy of Empires, Kingdoms and States, must of Necessity fall to the Ground; and the weak and innocent must constantly become a Prey to the rapacious and unjust. And therefore I desir'd them to think seriously of what dangerous Consequence it must needs be, to set themselves in Opposition to Almighty God, who is the God of order; for who ever contended with God and prospered?

And as to that atrocious Sin of Murder, for which some of them were convicted and suffer'd: I desir'd them to reflect upon what horrid Guilt they had contracted, God being the Sovereign Lord of the Life and Death of his Creatures. See now that I, even I am he, and there is no God with me: I kill, and I make alive; I wound, and I heal; neither is there any that can deliver out of my Hand, Deut. xxxii, 39. Dare any be guilty of such saucy Presumptions, as to assume the divine Prerogative, as to dispose of the Life and Death of his Creatures, of destroying, as much as in him lies, at one Stroke, suddenly, by surprize and unexpectedly, both Soul and Body to all Eternity; and after all, can such a one expect to pass unpunished? None can deliver such Persons out of God's Hand. I put them in Mind that the nearer the Relation is, so much greater must the Sin be; and one having murder'd the Wife of his Bosom, his own self, Man and Wife being no more two, but one Person; by murdering his Wife, he murder'd himself: I expos'd the unnatural, the cruel and worse than brutish Fact, of murdering an Infant, of having no Compassion upon the Fruit of ones Womb, of destroying that which pleads, which cries for Pity and Compassion at the Hands of every Body: A third having committed Murder on a Stranger, of whom he knew nothing of, whom he had never seen, to whom he had never spoken, and consequently, where there could not be the least Pretence of any Provocation. They having been such heinous Criminals and notorious Offenders, I exhorted and intreated all of them, to think upon their Ways, and turn their Feet unto God's Testimonies, and to lay hold upon the Promises of Life and Salvation in Christ; to repent of all their Sins, more especially, of those heinous, crying, unnatural, cruel and barbarous Sins of Theft, Robbery, Covetousness, Uncleanness and Murder, for which they suffer'd so much Shame, Contempt and Misery.

While these and many other Instructions and Exhortations were gi

ven, they all attended in Chappel, and such as could read, made regular responses, and all of them were very attentive, both to Prayers and Instructions and Exhortations. William Fletcher was for a long time very sick and weak, and behav'd himself at all times with abundance of submission and resignation. Massey Hornbey was also much afflicted with Sickness for two or three Weeks: When I visited her in the Cell, she declar'd herself very Penitent, and that she was very desirous of Prayers and Instructions; as was also Elizabeth Hewit , who having been brought to Bed in a Goal, after she was taken up for the Crime, she was Convicted for, contracted such a cold and other Indispositions, that she was seldom able to come to Chappel, but was very desirous of Prayers and proper Instructions in the Cells. Thomas Tavernor and William Ray , were also much afflicted with Sickness, during their confinement, but for the most part came to Chapel, though with difficulty. All of them behav'd apparently well, though not so much affected, as may be thought needful for Persons in their deplorable Circumstances.

Elizabeth Hewit , alias Giles , about Twenty-four years of Age, born at Rochester of mean Parents, who gave her no Education. Being unkindly treated by a Mother-in-Law, she left her Father, who took little care of her when young, and serv'd in any mean Station, till about a Year ago she came to London , and serv'd in a Victualling-house in the Strand . There she got acquainted with one Giles, who upon promise of Marriage, unlawfully convers'd with her. And she being reduced to a distrest and desperate Condition, and finding an opportunity, when her MASTER Mr. Kirk, and her Mistress were both out, she broke open a Trunk in a Closet, and took thereout fourteen Guineas and a half, 3 l. 13 s. in Silver, and two gold Rings, value 10 s. the 14th of July, 1733, and then went out of Town in a Coach, but was soon pursued and taken at Badgers-hill in Kent , in a day or two after the Robbery; her Master found no more but the two gold Rings, and half a Guinea and 6 d, which was all he recover'd of his Mony. Being thus taken, she was sent to Maidstone Goal , and when Health permitted, brought to Newgate , by a Habeas Corpus in order to be tried at the Old Bailey . This Robbery she own'd, but deny'd that she was a Thief before, but acknowledged her being addicted to and frequenting vicious Company; she was in a miserable and poor condition, and some Weeks before she died, she was wholly deaf and could hear nothing. She was very ignorant of Christian Principles, but declar'd herself Penitent, in Peace with every body, and own'd the Justice of her Sentence. Her Sickness and troubles increasing, upon Saturday the 15th,

of June, between five and six o'Clock in the Morning, she died of a violent Fit of the Convulsions.

Upon Thursday the fourth of this instant July, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Eleven Surviving Malefactors, in the Cells of Newgate : When William Jellard , for breaking and entering the House of Gherard Bothemly , and stealing some things, April 7th, in the Night. Massey Hornbey , for the Murder of her female Bastard-Child, March 5th. John Green , for stealing 4 gold Rings, and some other Goods and Money of William Bennet , in his House, March 11th. Joseph Hart , for stealing eight Moidores, &c. the goods of Elizabeth Tillet , Widow ; four Moidores, &c. the Money of John Bateman , and a pair of Silver Buckles, value 10 s. the goods of Charles Thronbury , Esq ; in the house of Elizabeth Tillet , March 19th, and Samuel Walker , for stealing 50 Guineas, and other Mony of Joseph Hague , a Wig and some Linnen belonging to Sam. Touchet , a Hat, the Property of Holden Bouker , and several promissary Notes of considerable value, the property of Joseph Hague , in his House, March 3d. Receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve: The remaining six, viz. Thomas Evans , William Fletcher , Peter Merchie , Thomas Tavernor , William Raye , and Roger Bow were order'd for Execution. But on Monday Morning a Reprieve came, for eight Days, for William Fletcher , the Cook .

Thomas Tavernor , alias Cotton , was indicted for Assaulting Mary the Wife of Samuel Russel , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Silk-purse, two gold Rings, and two shillings; January 3d.

1. Thomas Tavernor , about twenty-four years of Age, was born near the Town, of honest Parents, his Father leaving him Young, he had good Education at a Publick School, where he learned Reading, Writing and Arithmetick, to fit him for Business, and was taught the Christian Religion, in which he was more conversant, then a great many of these unhappy People. He declared himself to have been, and so he appeared to be, a Person of a brisk active Spirit and Temper, and who lov'd a great deal of Liberty and Freedom; but who thought, that that altogether consisted in Mirth, Jollity and a voluptious Inclination, as appear'd from the variety of Incidents and Accounts he gave of his Proceedings, some of which are as follow. That his Father dying whilst he was a Youth, was the occasion he was not placed out by his Friends, as an Apprentice to any Business, but having been brought up at School to Writing and Accompts, he was employ'd by a great Dealer in Hogs, as a Clerk or Book-keeper for

some Years, and was also entrusted by his Master, to pay and over-see the other Servants; and in which Station, he behaved himself so well to the Satisfaction of his Master, that he was extreamly well respected, as well for his care in his Business, as for his civil behaviour and deportment; in so much, that his Master denied him no Freedom he required, but frequently gave him the Liberty to take one of his Horses when ever he had a Mind to ride out for the Air or Diversion, with which (in a Chaise which he hired for that Purpose) he often diverted himself by riding out to several Places about the Town, and to one in particular, ten or twelve Miles from the Town to a Publick-house, where he used to put up; and always behaving himself there with much Civility and Complaisance, and was extreamly well respected by the People of the House; the Landlord of which having a Daughter, a very likely and agreeable young Woman, Tavernor seem'd very well pleased with her Conversation; and one Day told her Father he had an Inclination to make his Addresses to her, if it might be with her Parents Consent; to which the Landlord replied to this Effect; that it was too soon for her to think of a Husband, which waved the Discourse for the present.

But about fourteen Days afterwards, coming there again in a Chaise, after a little Refreshment, he prevail'd on the Father to permit his Daughter to take a Ride out with him in the Chaise, promising to bring her home again, in a short Time: And the young Woman complying with his Importunity, went with him; but they had not long been gone out, before he began to press her to a Consent to marry him immediately; which she not complying with, he swore violently, if she did not consent to marry him that Night, he would instantly stab her: And his Threats were so terrifying that the poor young Woman swoon'd away in the Chaise. This Misfortune had not the Effect upon him to divert him from his Purpose; but upon her Recovery, he still persisted in the same Resolution: The young Woman, upon her Knees, expostulated with him, on the Treachery of his Behaviour, and entreated him to desist from his Intentions, and apply to her Friends in a proper manner for their Consent; adding, she her self would second his Request to her Friends, and did not doubt but to meet with their Compliance, as knowing her Father and Mother had conceived a very great Respect for him; and also assuring him, she would not marry any body but himself, in case her Friends should refuse their consent, but earnestly persuaded him not to force her in that manner to comply, without the Approbation of her Friends first sought for, and to consider the Consequence of such a rash Proceeding; but he, wholly deaf to her Intreaties, persisted in his Resolution, and seem

ed ready to put his Threats in Execution; when, thro' fear of immediate Death, back'd by his violent Menaces, he obliged her to comply with his Desires, and submit to be carry'd by him whither he thought fit, which was first to the Fleet , where they were marry'd, and afterwards to a Publick-house in Town, where he declared his marriage to her, and kept his Wedding-dinner, there at which Place they continued for some few Days, in which time he provided a Lodging in the Neighbourhood for himself and her, and afterwards reconciled themselves to her Parents, where they frequently went, and were well received and accepted by them. After their Marriage he set up a Publick house in Town, which he kept for some time; but altho' he had taken such a Step to procure a Wife, yet his Love soon cool'd to her, and his violent Passion of Love soon changed into Dislike or Distrust; for in about 12 Months after their Marriage they parted, she went to the Country to her Friends, and he never seen her till Sunday last, when he sent a Horse and Man to Bull's-Cross , near Endfield , on Saturday, with a Letter to her Mother, to give her leave to come and take her last Farewel of him, before he died; for he said he could not be easy till he had seen her, to ask her Forgiveness for the Injuries he had done her. When he saw her, he could not forbear sheding Tears; and said, he hop'd she would be so good as to forgive him the Injuries which he had done her; which she said she did freely, and hop'd God would forgive him. She express'd herself under a great Concern for his bringing himself to that miserable and unfortunate End.

He was of a vicious disorderly Temper; and after his parting from his Wife, contracted several Debts, which obliged him to skulk and keep out of the way, for fear of Imprisonment. But as he had an Inclination to make a Figure in the World (as he call'd it) so he was endeavouring to find out ways to enable him to appear above his Equals, without being under so close a Restraint or Confinement as his Business required he should; and he could think of no readier Expedient than that of the Highway; having observ'd several amongst the Acquaintance he had pick'd up at Gaming-tables; Billiard-tables, and the Hops; who tho' they seem'd to make a Figure in the World, yet had no better Dependance than himself: And therefore he look'd upon the Highway as the readiest way to supply his Wants, and enable him to live suitable to his Inclinations: And this Observation (without considering the Consequence which attends it) induced him to resolve upon that Method, as a ready Expedient to supply all his Wants. And what the more contributed to his following this Course, was, that a Companion of his who is since gone to Sea, and who was Partner with him in the Robbery for which he died, advised him to go on the Highway: And being out of all

Business, and having nothing to subsist on, and wanting Grace to resist such a Temptation, he readily comply'd with the Proposal, and went and hired two Horses; upon which they immediately rode out, and stopt Madam Russel's Chariot; by the Turnpike leading to Newington-green, and robb'd her of the things mentioned in the Indictment. The Coachman pursued him and his Companion, who rode off towards Highgate , where the latter was taken; and a Number of People joining the Coachman in the Pursuit, Taverner quitted his Horse, and got into a Field by Holloway , where being surrounded, whilst he presented a Pistol in his Defence, one came behind and pulled him down backward and took him, after he had dropt the Pistol. Most of the Men present, knowing Taverner, they pitied him and let him go immediately; upon which he went to some of his Friends and Relations, and told them the Danger he had shun'd. They advis'd him to go to Ireland , and gave him four or five Guineas to defray the Expence of his Journey thither. He went to Bristol , in order to his Escape; but dallying away his time, and not taking due care of his Safety, he was taken up and carried before the Mayor, who sent him to Prison, where he was kept, till by virtue of an Habeas Corpus, he was brought up to Newgate , where he lay until May Sessions, when being try'd for the said Robbery, he was, on full Evidence convicted.

But before he went for Bristol , and after the commission of this Robbery, he was under a Necessity to keep himself private for some time, for fear of being taken: But one Day venturing out in Disguise, he accidentally met with a young Man of his Acquaintance, whom he informed of his Misfortunes, and with great Earnestness address'd in the following manner, John, I beg of you to forsake all bad and vicious Company, and especially to refrain going to the Hops and Gaming-tables, and such like Places, which we have too often frequented; otherwise I fear they will prove your Ruin as well as mine: For by that means, and the Company I met with there, I have brought my self into the most miserable Condition; my Affliction is greater than I can express and I have no Rest by Day or Night. If I lay my self down on my Pillow, I am troubled with such distracted Thoughts that Words cannot express, and which almost deprives me of my Reason. If I meet or see any Person, I am apprehensive they are come to seize me; and if they should, I am certainly a dead Man. Therefore I beg of you, for God and your own sake, to take warning by my unhappy Misfortunes, and that you will cease to frequent these wretched Places, 'as the Hops and Gamingtables, which have been the Instruments of all my Misfortunes and Misery; for at those Places you will always find one or other ready to encourage and lead you into all manner of Vice, Debauchery, and every Enormity; for they are the Nursery of Wickedness, and will prove the Bane

and Ruin of all who frequent them, This Advice he delivered so earnestly, that it drew Tears from the Eyes of his Friend as well as himself; and had that Effect upon him, that he faithfully promised him he would never go there any more, but utterly forsake the same: And, as we are informed, his Friend, since his Confinement, has been to see him, and told him, that he had hitherto followed his Advice, and with God's Assistance would continue to do so, and never once more frequent or go to any of those destructive Places: and that since his Advice and refraining therefrom, he had enjoyed more inward Satisfaction that he was able to express, or ever enjoy'd since he was capable of distinguishing Good from Evil; and that he was bound to pray for him to the last Moment of his Life, as being the Means of saving him from Ruin and Destruction; for he acknowledged to him, that he had just entered himself into the Society of a Sett of the worst and most profligate Fellows, whom he had sufficient cause to believe would, in a short time, have brought him to the like shameful and ignominious Death, which Taverner was then so near, and has since suffered; for which Reason he desired particularly, that all young Men, and others, might be caution'd frequenting against those Nurseries of Vice and Wickedness.

He own'd the Fact which he suffer'd for, and that his Sentence was most just, as being the Vengeance of God upon him for his most flagitious Life. He would not acknowledge any more Highway or other Robberies, nor Thefts, but own'd himself a very great Offender in many other respects, as Drinking, Whoring, &c. He had not his Health whilst under Confinement; and the apparent Reason thereof, proceeded from a most violent Remorse of Conscience and error of Mind, which so much oppress'd his Spirits, that he usually, in the midst of the Night, would start cut of his Sleep, and break into these and the like Expressions, What shall I do? What would you have with me? Where shall I go, &c. And the Anguish of his Mind was so great, that it kept him in a sort of a Feaver, so that at some times, for a few Minutes, he would seem almost delirious, and insensible of what he was doing.

He lamented his Misfortune, in that he had not taken his Sister's Advice, who being present with him when the other Person concern'd with him in the Fact for which he was convicted, came to call him out; she, tho' ignorant of his Intention, yet very earnestly importun'd him not to go out with him, as seeming to be apprehensive of some ill Consequence which might attend them. And he added, that had he then avoided going, in all human probability he had escaped that shameful and ignominious Death he was condemn'd to suffer; but that he was hurried on by his ill Fate, and deaf to all

her entreaties. This Sister appear'd to be very affectionate and indulgent to him, and carefully attended him during the time of his Confinement, of which he seem'd to be thoroughly Sensible, and earnestly wish'd it were in his Power to requite her.

He behav'd well both in Publick and Private, he declar'd himself, Penitent for all the Sins of his Life, believ'd in Christ, through whom alone he hop'd for Salvation, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Thomas Evans , alias Stevens , alias Stevenson , alias Prat , was indicted for stealing twenty-two Yards of printed Linnen, value, 22 s. 15 Yards of Printed Cotton, value 30 s. 38 Yards of Check, value 38 s. 13 Yards of blue Linnen, value, 13 s. 24 Yards of Printed Linnen Handkercheifs, value 24 s. 22 Yards of Muslin, value 3 l. 6 s. 15 Yards of Cambrick, value 3 l. 36 ells of Holland, value 4 l. 10 s. 14 ells of Nuns Holland, value 28 s. 36 Yards of Irish Linnen, value 56 s. and 8 Yards of course Linnen wrapper, value 4 s. the Goods of John Wingfield , in the House of Joseph Spinks , March 21st.

2. Thomas Evans , (whose right name is Stevens ) 38 Years of Age. was born of honest Parents, in the West-country , who Educated him at School, and instructed him in Christian Principles. When of Age, he serv'd his Time to a Wool-comber , and afterwards follow'd that Business in the Country, married a Wife by whom he had some Children, but he being of an unsettl'd desposition, not agreeing with his Wife, taken up with other Women, and given to loose Company, left his Family, came to London , and for some Years past, liv'd by biting, cheating and tricking all Mankind.

He used to go to Shops, and to cheapen Parcels of Goods, and then upon one Pretence or other, to go out with a Servant, who carried the Goods, to whom he was to pay the Money; but getting the Goods into his Hand, he gave the Servant the Slip, leaving him to seek either Money or Goods, where he could find them.

He would first look out a Publick-House, which he apprehended might be fit for his Purpose, and one which had a Back-Door to it, which he would frequent for some Time; and by his civil Deportment and Behaviour, and freely spending his Money, endeavour'd to gain the good Opinion of the People, who thereby supposed him to be a very honest Man, and of some Fortune; (he always appearing genteel and well dress'd) after which he would go to some neighbouring Shop, and look out such a Parcel of Goods as he intended; and after agreeing for the Prices, would order the same to be sent to him to such a House (the Place he had fix'd for his

Purpose) by the Servant or Porter belonging to the Shop, and direct a Bill of Parcels, and a Receipt thereon, to be sent with them, at which Place he would punctually attend against the Goods came, and when the Porter or Servant brought the same, he would take the Goods of the Person who brought them, and bid him wait a little, and he would fetch the Money, and pretending to go up Stairs for it, would slip out the back way with the Goods, and so went clear off with them.

He own'd that this way he had defrauded great Numbers of People, in and about London , and among the rest Mr. Wingfield the Prosecutor, but neither he nor his Servant having deliver'd the Goods to him, but he by slight of Hand carrying them off, it was found a capital Felony. He thought, though he was taken, that these Actions would be only esteem'd a Fraud, and that no more but a Fine or Imprisonment for a Time could be inflicted on him, little thinking (as he said) it was a capital Crime.

He confess'd his great Guilt this Way, and as being the same with robbing People of their Goods, that he suffer'd most deservedly for such a wicked Course of Life. He behav'd always very decently and gravely, wept often, shew'd a deal of Devotion, and appeared truly penitent. He hop'd for Salvation thro' Christ; repented of his Sins; and forgave all Men, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

Roger Bow , Waterman, was indicted for the Murder of Thomas Field , by giving him, with a Knife, one mortal Wound in the left Side of the Belly, near the Navel, of the Length of one Inch, and Depth of Eight Inches, May 16th, of which he languished 'till the next Day, and then died.

He was a second Time indicted on the Statute of Stabbing, and a third Time on the Coroner's Inquisition for the said Murder.

3. Roger Bow , 45 Years of Age, born at Putney , of honest Parents, who educated him at School, to read, write and cast Accompts, to fit him for Business, and had him instructed in Christian Principles; when of Age, he ply'd the River, as a Waterman , with his Father, and afterwards he serv'd, as a Sailor, on Board his Majesty's Navy in the Mediterranean , West-Indies , and other Places. About 20 Years ago he married a Wife, liv'd at Putney , and maintain'd his Family very well. When at Home, he serv'd the Custom-House as a Waterman . He pretended a Giddiness in his Head, and us'd to drink much Liquor, especially that fulsome Thing call'd Ge

neva, which turn'd him quite Mad, and then he was ready to do many unaccountable and out-of-the-way Things, both on board the Man of War, and likewise on Shore, when he was at Home.

As to the Murder of Thomas Field in Hungerford-Market , he alledg'd, that he knew but little of it; only that upon that Day, and the Day before, his Head had been very much confus'd, so that he scarce knew what he did: I told him, that was the Effect of Drink, as he acknowledg'd in the Round-House , saying, He had kill'd a Man, and he was sorry for it; but d - n it, he was drunk, and the Liquor had done it, and he would die with all the Pleasure in Life. He own'd, that he took up the Butcher's Knife to cut the String of his Shirt-Sleeve; but being very drunk, and out of Humour, he apprehended the young Man had done him some Injury, and stab the poor Lad whom he never saw before, (and who had never spoken to him, good nor bad) in the Belly, of which Wound he died next Day in great Agony. He griev'd and lamented much, over the unfortunate Death of the young Man; acknowledg'd, that he had been a very wicked Man in the preceeding Course of his Life, in neglecting God, and despising his Ordinances, for which he was left to himself, and suffer'd to fall into that horrid Crime of Murder, which justly brought him to a fatal, ignominious End.

The Accounts he gave of himself were undistinct; but while under Sentence, being always sober, no such Signs of Madness or Folly, as he would fain have pretended for an Excuse, were to be seen. He behav'd well in the Chappel, and at other Times; profess'd his Faith in Christ; that he was griev'd and sincerely Penitent for all his Sins, particularly, the horrid Sin of Murder; and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

He desir'd me to take Notice, That he was inform'd, they gave it out, as if, at another Time, he had kill'd another Man in Hungerford-Market ; and also that when in the West Indies , on board a Man of War, he had murder'd a third Man; but this, he said, is altogether a groundless Surmize, for he never kill'd nor murder'd one in his Life, but the unhappy Thomas Field , for whom he most deservedly suffer'd.

The following LETTER Roger Bow sent to his Son, the Day before his Execution.

DEAR CHILD,

THO' the Terrors of this Place are very great, yet they are not to be parallel'd with the Horror of a guilty Conscience, under a Dread of suffering a deserved

Punishment for so notorious a Crime as Murder; and especially a Murder, without any Cause or Provocation, which justly brings me to a miserable and shameful Death.

Let me advise you, my Dear Child, and I beg you will always remember my Advice, as the last Request of your unfortunate and dying Father, to use your utmost Endeavours to shun all idle and dissolute Company, which serve only to the Encouragement of Drunkenness and Debauchery; be therefore careful to shun every Temptation which may lead you thereto, and to avoid all loose and prophane Companions, the want of observing that Caution; has been the Cause of my Ruin. An idle Disposition, and Love of dissolute Company, insensibly draws us from one Sin to another, until at length they grow familiar and customary to us, and render all Vices habitual, and deprives us of the Power of considering the ill Consequences thereof; or regarding the Shame and Misery which at one Time or other attends them.

I have too fatally found by Experience the Truth of this Assertion, and am now a deploroble and unhappy Sufferer for the want of a timely Regard to the Caution I now give you: But my dear Child, I earnestly beg of you to take warning by the dreadful Example before you, that you may avoid splitting upon the same Rock, on which I perish; and as you grow up to Manhood, to be particularly careful to avoid that excessive, tho' fashionable Folly and Sin of Drinking in particular; by Reason I have, by fatal Experience, found it to be an Inlet into all other Sins; which if I had so carefully avoided, as I wish you may, I had never been guilty of that which I am now to suffer a most terrible and shameful Death; for a Death, which tho' terrible in itself, yet is nothing in Proportion to the tormenting Thoughts and Reflections of my own Heart, and the Sorrow of having in a Moment's Time deprived an innocent Person of his Life, and the Consequence of a Terrible Account to be hereafter given for it; altho', as I am heartily sorry for it, and hope my Repentance is sincere, I trust in the Infinite Mercy of God, for the Sake of his Son Christ Jesus, and thro' his Merits, that I shall find Mercy and forgiveness

at his Hands; and that he will give you Grace to shun all ill Company, to avoid all those Snares and Temptations which have been the Occasion of my Ruin.

And that you will prove Dutiful and Obedient to your poor Mother, which is the Earnest Prayer of,

Your Dying Father,

ROGER BOW .

From the Place of my Confinement in the Cells in Newgate , July 8, 1734.

William Ray , was indicted for the Murder of Mary, his Wife , by giving her several mortal Wounds and Bruises, on her Head, Face, Eyes, Breast and Stomach, April 29th, of which Wounds and Bruises she languish'd till the 4th of May, and then died.

He was a second Time indicted on the Coroner's Inquisition, for the said Murder.

4. William Ray , 21 Years of Age, of honest Parents, at the other End of the Town, who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and Arithmetick, for Business, and instructed him in the Christian Religion. When of Age, he follow'd his Father's Trade of a Horse-Farrier , and the Father dying four Years ago, he wrought for his Mother; but not agreeing with a Friend who was in the Shop in Company, he did not keep to his Work, but idl'd away his Time in drinking, bad Company-keeping, Gaming, and such Diversions, as are altogether improper for a Tradesman, or any Body who intends to do well. The Wife he married kept a Geneva-Shop, near to his Mothers, and William got acquainted with her, and thinking that she had good Business, they were both willing to contract Matrimony, which was about a Year ago: But (it may be truly said) that never two were more unfortunate in a married State than they: For instead of praying fervently to God, for a Blessing upon them and their Endeavours in that new State of Life, as religious and virtuous People ought to do, there was little to be heard but blaspheming, cursing and swearing at one another, which commonly ended in fighting and beating of each other, and making Disturbance in the Neighbourhood. Both of them (as he said) had a great Inclination to drinking, and were often fuddled, when the Wife was very Quarrelsome, and their bawling and scolding seldom ended without Blows; so that all the Time of their married State, was a Life of Debate, Contention and Enmity.

As to the Murder, he denied that he had, any such Intention, but that he beat her in an unmerciful Manner, and that often, which he did not deny; and for Excuse he pretended, that she gave him the greatest Provocation, and sometimes she struck him first; but when they began to fight, he was always too many for her, and she was sure to come off in the worst Manner.

He own'd, that the Night she was murder'd, he had been out drinking, and came Home very much in Liquor; but as to the beating of her in an unmerciful Manner, as a dying Man he declar'd he knew nothing of it; though indeed he own'd, that it might be all true, for he was so drunk, that he remember'd nothing of the Matter, only he said, that another Man, whom he had caus'd to be taken up, had beat her on the Breast. He was very Sick, and also Deaf a good Part of the Time he was under Sentence, but some Days before he dy'd, he was fully recover'd, and express'd a deep Sense of his Sins, though he always endeavour'd to extenuate his Guilt, with respect to the Murder. He acknowledg'd, that he was a very idle young Man, a Sabbath-breaker, and otherwise negligent of his Duty to God; and that for these and other Sins, he was justly afflicted. He own'd the Justice of his Sentence according to Law; declar'd, that he hop'd for Salvation through the Mercy of God in Christ; that he was truly Penitent for the innumerable Sins of his Life; and he forgave all Injuries, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

A Copy of the Letter wrote by William Ray to his Mother.

Most dear Mother,

I Wish I had not, under these unhappy Circumstances, been obliged to write to you; but the Confinement and Terror of the Punishment I am now to suffer, makes me take the Opportunity of sending these Lines to you, in which, dear Mother, I shall ask you Forgiveness for all the Crimes I have ever committed, and wish I had always been more dutiful and obedient If I had taken your Advice, forsaken all wild and drun pany, I should not have com miserable End I now do own I was too passionat

to my poor Wife, otherways should not have used her so cruelly as I did; but I was in Liquor, and she provoked and anger'd me, and I did not know what I did, nor had any real Design to kill her. I am sure I have never been easy in my Mind since this unfortunate Accident has happen'd; and in my Sleep have been frequently disturbed, and thought I have seen her by me. The Sin of Murder is a great Sin, and Drunkenness and Passion often lead us to it, and to do those Things we should not do when sober. Dear Mother, believe I had no Design to commit the Fact for which I am to die; nor had done it had I not been in Liquor, which I am indeed sorry for, and hope God and you will forgive me for the same, and accept my Penitence.

I am obliged to you and all my Friends and Relations for their Endeavours to serve me upon my Trial; and desire all your Prayers for me, to the last Moment of my Life; and am,

Your most unfortunate Son,

W. RAY.

July 8, 1734.

From the Place of my unhappy Confinement, in the Cells of Newgate .

Peter Merchie , was indicted for assaulting James Chudd , in a Court near the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Half-Guinea, and Ten Shillings and Six-Pence in Silver, the Money of John Foresee , March 18th.

Peter Merchie , near 29 Years of Age, born at Wandsor , of French Parents, who educated him at School, to read and write French, and caused him to be instructed in the Christian Religion: When of Age, he was put out Apprentice to a Weaver in Spittle-Fields , and serv'd out his Time honestly, and with the Approbation of his Master; after the Expiration of his Time he work'd Journey-work for some Time, and then married a Wife, by whom he had three small Children, now living, he kept his Family in a poor way, but had the Reputation of being honest. He went to France , not having much to do here, to visit his Relations, and to seek for better Business; but met with nothing but Disappointments, and was oblig'd to return as poor and miserable as he went.

He frequented the French Church in Spittle-Fields , and of which he

used to be a pretty constant Member. Few of these unhappy Criminals have so good a Share of Religious Knowledge as he had. He took the Sacrament sometimes, and had some Love for that which is good. He own'd, that he was most addicted to drinking; but that he was not much guilty of those other Vices, to which most of these unhappy Persons have an Inclination.

He was not willing to forgive his Enemies; but I convinced him, that he could not die a Christian, unless he freely forgave all those who had done him any Injury, and then he was willing to comply with the Terms of the Gospel. As to the Robbery, for which he died, he gave this Account of it, viz. That he had been Abroad drinking that Day, and as he was near his own House, the Robbery was committed; but that one, who was likewise concern'd therein, made his Escape, and left him in the Lurch for all.

He cried and wept very often, and lamented much for his Wife, whom he commended for a virtuous Woman, and his three poor young Children. He behaved well at all Times; declar'd his Faith in Jesus Christ, as the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners. He was (in appearance) truly penitent, and died in Peace with all the World.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

BEtween the Hours of nine and ten in the Morning, on Tuesday the 9th of this Instant, they were carried from Newgate to the Place of Execution in two Carts, viz. Taverner and Stevens in one, Bow, Ray and Marchie in the other. All of them appear'd very Devout and Serious, not having any more to add to their former Confessions, only that they dy'd in Peace with every Body, and as Prayers were near ended, they desired a Psalm to be sung; when all was over, they went off the Stage, crying out, God have mercy upon me, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

Immediately after the Cart went off some of William Ray 's Friends drawing him down to put him out of Pain, in a Minutes time or little more, the Rope broke and he fell to the Ground, which occasion'd a great deal of confusion, and then the Executioner and some about him took him up and led him to the Cart, and hung him up again, but only a little from the ground, not so high as the others.

This is the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHERIE ,

Ordinary and Chaplain of Newgate .

A COPY of a PAPER, WROTE BY Mr. TAVERNER, After his CONVICTION;

And which, for the Reasons therein mentioned, he desired might be publish'd after his Death.

IT being customary for Persons in my unfortunate Circumstances to acquaint the World with the Motives and Reasons which induced them to commit such Offences, for which they were condemned to suffer. In Compliance to that Custom, as well as in Justice to Mankind; and in order, by a free and impartial Account of my Behaviour, and the Motives which led me into the Commission of that Offence for which I am sentenced to a shameful and ignominious Death; and also as I think it to be a Duty incumbent upon me, by a free and ingenuous Confession, to acknowledge my Offences in the most publick manner: But as the Illness under which I have for some time past laboured, has in a manner disabled me from speaking so audibly as is necessary, to my being heard, and that if it had not, yet but few of the Specta

tors present could hear and distinguish what should be said; and above all, that tho' such Exhortations may be a part of our necessary Duty, yet as leaving the same in this manner, will more effectually contribute to the End I design it, and that I may have the last Moments of my Life the more at Liberty, to recommend my immortal Part to the Hands of a blessed Redeemer: I choose to remit what I have to say to Writing, and to give the World some Account of my self, in this Method: And in order thereto I am obliged to declare, that tho' by the Death of my Father, in my Infancy, I was deprived of that paternal Care which might have been the Means of regulating my future Life and Actions more agreeable to the Laws of God and Man; yet that I wanted for no Assistance an indulgent Mother and kind Relations could bestow upon me, according to their Circumstances; my greatest Unhappiness was, that thro' their too indulgent Kindness the Liberty and Freedom allow'd me, was more than it ought to have been, yet thro' their care in my Education I had a reasonable Share of Learning, and was a tolerable good Master of my Pen, and understood Writing, Accompts, and Book-keeping to such a Degree, as would have enabled me to have procured a reputable Livelihood: But having no Inclination to be under the Confinement, as I thought, of a tedious Apprenticeship, I could little relish the thoughts of Servitude in that manner, and rather chose to serve in any other Capacity, by reason I look'd upon my self as being then more at Liberty to follow my own Inclination; and in case of any Dislike, could shift the Scene of Servitude when I pleased.

But as I advanced in Years, and it became necessary for me to endeavour at something for my future Support and Maintenance; by the Assistance of my Friends I got a Recommendation to one Mr. Edwards, a very honest and reputable Person, and Dealer in Hogs, to whom I was bound an Apprentice; but did not serve him above three Years before I ran away from him; notwithstanding he was a very kind and indulgent Master. After which I was bound an Apprentice to my Brother Lee, but did not long continue there, before I got to be Clerk to Mr. Wilkes and Company, in the Butchering way,

whom I serv'd for a considerable time, from whom I met with the greatest Civility and Respect, and who always indulged me in greater Liberties than I could reasonably expect; but this Indulgence prov'd thus far prejudicial to me, that it gave me a greater Idea of my own Merits than I ought to have entertain'd, and persuaded me into a Belief, that my Qualifications merited the same Respect from others; so that what I received, and ought to have considered as proceeding from Favour, I solely imputed to be no more than a bare Acknowledgment due to my Merits.

This Vanity so far prevailed on me, that I thought it was time to enter upon the Stage of Business, and launch out into the World upon my own account only: And in order thereto, my first Intention was to alter my Condition; and with that View, having observ'd an agreeable young Woman, whose Father's House I frequented, and who had captivated my Affections, I was intent upon gaining her Consent; for the obtaining of which I made use of some indirect Practices, tho' perhaps I might more honourably have obtain'd the same, had I apply'd in a fairer manner: But the Esteem I then thought I had for her, together with the Eagerness of my Inclination, fixt my Resolutions to get her Consent, were it by ever so indirect Methods.

Tho' I succeeded in my Designs, yet that Success has since embittered all my Pleasures; for I could not avoid frequently thinking, that tho' my Artifices had rendered me Master of her Person, yet that her Heart was estranged from me by those Proceedings: And I must give it as a Lesson to all young Persons, of both Sexes, who have any Inclination to the Conjugal State, that they would use no sinister Artifices or fraudulent Methods to engage or compel the Consent of those they desire; for when the Fraud or Artifice comes to be discovered, it rarely fails of rousing the Resentment; and a Consciousness of the Imposition, often makes us believe the Resentment greater than perhaps it may really be, and is many times attended with very melancholy Circumstances.

As I was my self sensible of my Error in this Particular, so every little Word of most trivial Variance

I attributed to proceed from Resentment, and tho' perhaps groundless, it yet failed not to raise me too often to a great Degree of Passion; for 'tis seldom Offenders care to be told of their Faults, or even to think they are remembered by the injured Person. It shall suffice to say, that Affection which I had conceived for her before Marriage, soon afterwards began to subside; and in a short time an Uneasiness grew so reciprocal, that as we could not with any Satisfaction live together, we agreed to part, which we did, and she went to reside with her Friends, where she still continues. After this Separation, I grew more indolent and negligent, and at the same time more extravagant (the general Consequence of such unhappy Divisions) And altho' my Miscarriages often sat heavy upon my Mind, yet I endeavoured to divert the same by Drink, Company and other Diversions; and not finding that agreeable Pleasure and Satisfaction at home, which I might by a prudent Management have expected, I sought for it abroad, and by that means suffered my Affairs to run into Confusion; and not only so, but in hopes of diverting or at least delaying my Misfortunes, suffered my self to be insensibly drawn into the Company and Society of a miserable Sett of People, whose only hopes of Subsistence depends on the Ruins of the most debauched, profligate and extravagant Persons, who, Spider like, not only suck out the Substance of the unwary, who fail into their Clutches, but by pernicious Advice corrupt and poison their Intellects: And when once the unhappy Victims are entangled in their Snares, they are surely brought to Destruction, of which I am become a wretched Example. And however favourable the compassionate part of Mankind may look upon my Actions, and pity my miserable Condition, by being thus unwarily drawn in; yet as the Laws of God and Man have justly ordained and enacted capital Punishments for such enormous Offences, 'tis highly reasonable that these Laws, how rigorous soever they may seem, should be inflicted with Severity, as the only Method to preserve the Peace of the Publick.

I can no ways accuse my Prosecutor, or the Evidence against me, nor arraign the Justice of the Court in my Sentence, the same being highly just and reasonable; nor could I

hope or even wish for Life, upon any Terms, under the Load of Guilt I now lie. All I can wish or desire is, that my Punishment may prove an Example to all Persons, to caution them to avoid those pernicious Rocks on which I have suffered; and that they would be strictly cautious to act with Justice and Integrity in all their Actions, without being carried away with any ambitious Views, or Aims of aspiring to appear in the World in Stations superior to what their Circumstances and Capacities will admit of; and strictly to avoid all Conjugal Differences; for when once those gain Ground, there can be no Prospect of future Happiness; when once Strife and Hatred enters, they are followed by a Train of Vices which never cease till they bring the unhappy Sufferer to Ruin and Destruction. And above all, I would earnestly entreat all Persons whatsoever, whether young or old, to be particularly careful how they apply their Time, either under Pretence of Diversion or otherwise, lest they should be unwarily drawn in, when they least expect it, to any unlawful Engagements, which may end in their Destruction; for tho' at first they may esteem them agreeable Amusements only; yet when they grow habitual, they introduce Indolence, Poverty, and a Readiness to submit to every Temptation, of which there are always some waiting to take the Advantage.

POSTSCRIPT.

As I acknowledge the Justice of my Sentence, so I beg of the World not to reflect on my Wife, Brother, nor Sisters; especially on my dear Sister Lee, who always gave me the best of Counsel: But Women, Drinking and Gaming have been the Cause of my Ruin; but I hope all others will be warn'd by my Downfal.

I was born in Islington ; and after the death of my Parents, brought up chiefly under the Care of my poor Sister, Mrs. Lee; and attain'd the greatest Share of my Learning in the Charity-School of St. Mary Islington ; at the Age of thirteen I learn'd Navigation, then ran away, and afterwards put my self Apprentice to Mr. Edwards, as is

above-mentioned. After the Commission of the Fact for which I suffer, and my Flight to Bristol , had I escaped Justice, I had fully resolved not to do any thing more that was ill.

I freely forgive my Prosecutors, and every body, hoping for Forgiveness, thro' the Merits and Mediation of my dear Redeemer, &c.

I hope the Gentlemen abovementioned will forgive me for making mention of them; but I thought it my Duty to express their Goodness towards me.

Thomas Taverner ,

Aged twenty-three Years.

FINIS.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

On Saturday was publish'd, No. VII.

And to be continu'd every Fortnight. Price 6 d.

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey, For Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences. From the Year 1720, to the Present Time. Chiefly Transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court. With Genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches, of the most Eminent Convicts; and which are not to be met with in any other Collection.

No. I. The Trial of Edward Ely , for the Murder of Lieutenant Bignall, in Sweden . Tho. Elmes , Tho. Butler , alias Becket , Esq ; Spiggot, Phillips, Burroughs and Heater, with Lindsey, a Clergyman; Will. Barton ; aud John Winship , for Robberies on the High way; and Will. Wade , for robbing the Bristol Man Jacob William Harris ; Lady Smith and Lady Green, for several Frauds. Tho. Knight , for stealing Goods, Value 666 l. in the Shop of Mr. Deard's, in the Court of Requests. William Robins , and M  L -, for Rapes. John Thompson , on the Statute, on which Jonathan Wild was afterwards try'd Sarah Thompson ; Abigail Smith ; Bridget Noland ; Sarah Thompson and Mary Price , for robbing their Cullies. And Barbara Spencer , Alice Hall , and Elizabeth Bray , for Coining.

No. II. Mat. Clark ; Dr. Fabricius, and William Makepeace , for Murder, Mary Roberts ; Sus. Miller; Eliz. Marsh; Eliz. Angier; Su. Coltis, and Margaret Mason , for robbing their Cullies. John Bickerton ; Ja. Reading ; John Wigly ; Mac Owen ; Will. Casey ; John James , and John Dykes , for Highway Robberies. John Trantum , and Phil. Story , for Burglaries. And Arthur Gray , for a Burglary, with intent to ravish Mrs Murray, &c.

No. III. George Duffus , for Sodomy. Mary Bun , Eliz. Mob ; Mary Harvey , Ann Parker , Sarah Jackson and Mary Sharp , for robbing their Cullies. Butler Fox ; Nat. Haws ; James Wright ; Will. Colthouse : John Colthouse , Christo. Murphey ; Tho. Sinnamond , Jonah Burgess , James Shaw and Rich. Norton , for robberies on the Highway. Christo. Atkinson ; James Shaw , and John Smith , for Murder. John Weston and Dr. Krafft, for Rapes. And George Nicholas , for forging a Bank Note, &c.

No. IV. Butler Fox , John James , Tho. Picket , Henry Avery , Thomas Reeves John Hartly ; Francis Hackabout and John Casey , for Highway Robberies; and Hawkings and Simpson, for robbing the Bristol Mail. Vaughan, Cholmley, Isaac Ingram , and Robert Hicks , for Murder. Jane Bean and Alice Phenix , Street-Walkers . Will. Burridge , for Horse-stealing; and John Dicks , for Sodomy, &c.

No. V. Geo. Cheshire , Will. Hill , . F. Nicholson, and John Nichols , for Murder. James Booty , for a Rape. Molony and Carrick; Nat. Jackson and John Murphey , for Highway Robberies. With many other remarkable Trials.

No. VI. W. Chun, and Mat. Brinsden , for Murder. Tho. Etheridge ; Robert Wilkinson , James Lincoln ; Shaw, Burridge; Richard Oakey ; Tho. Milksop ; Tho. Wilson ; Sam. Cole ; Thomas Phelps ; Ja. Sparrow ; Edw. Raymond ; John Casey and Arthur Hughs ; for Robberies on the Highway. Tho. Rodin , for Sodomy. Simon Jacobs , for Burglary. Sir Charles Burton , and W. Smith for privately Stealing. Catherine Ward ; Marg. Fisher , and Marg. Wright ; for robbing their Cullies.

No. VII. Mary Bolton for the Murder of Clementia Thornton . Tho. Glanister , for receiving Goods stolen by Mary Darbieau . And for breaking the House of Mary Sheppard . And for receiving Goods stolen by Ann Merrick . Ann Merrick for stealing those Goods. Mary Darbieau , for breaking the House of Joseph Folwell . Nathaniel Glanister , for receiving the Goods Mary Rogers , for stealing the Goods of Sir Thomas Jones . William Bristow , for a Misdemeanor. Paul Crony , for the Murder of Nath. Asser . Sarah Brown and Will. Audley , for the same Murder. Ralph Emmery , for the same Murder. John Cole alias Cranfield , for robbing Margaret Slade . Paul Crony , for stealing Mony in the Shop of John Fowls . Edmund Neal and William Pincher , for robbing Joseph Dormy . And for robbing Solomon Nichols . Mary Bodkin , for privately stealing Mony from Morgan Morgan . John Harriot , for stealing a Horse from the Prince of Wales. Edward Wotton , George Beal , Charles Motherly , and John Hornby , for receiving Mony from Elizabeth Hatchet for returning stolen Goods. Y - M - for the Murder of Joseph Hatton . Charles Weaver for the Murder of Eleanor Clark . Eliz. Hely and Will. Smith for the Murder of Tho. Griffin . Richard Oakey , John Levee and Matthew Flood , for robbing Will. Young Esq ; and Col. Cope. Oakey and Levee, for robbing Simon Bets . Flood and Levee for robbing James Forey . L - A for the Murder of her Bastard. Mary Radford , for the Murder of her Bastard. Edward Fox for ravishing Susan Mitchel .

London: Printed for J. Wilford, behind the Chapter-House, in St. Paul's Church-Yard.

Where may be had the six former Numbers, Price Sixpence each

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictments, and other Persons cencerned in Prosecutions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers; and every Number contains more in Quantity, and is Cheaper than any thing ever publish'd this Way.

Newly Publish

The FIFTEENTH EDITION of

ONANIA Or, the Heinous Sin of Self Pollution, and all its frightful Consequences (in both Sex) considered, with Spiritual and Physical Advice to those who have already injured themselves by this abominable Practice.

As also the Sixth Edition of the Supplement to it both of them Revised, and Enlarged, and now Printed together in one Volume

And as the several Passages in the former Impressions, that have been charged with being obscure, and ambiguous are in these cleared up, and explained, there will be no more alterations, or Additions made to them

These Editions contain some further and surprizing Instances of the Mischiefs by that filthy, sinful Commerce with ones self, which is so notoriously practised as well by he Adult as Youth, Women as Men, Married as Single, to the weakening their Generative Faculties, and hindering Procreation, as their Letters of Complaints to the Author herein inserted, shew.

And, amongst others, a curious Letter from a Lady, with the Author's Answer to it, concerning the Use and abuse of the Marriage-Bed; together with divers Casuistical and other Letters from both Sexes, of some secret unnatural Effeminaces, necessary to be known both by the Married and single of each Sex.

To which is ADDED,

A Curious PIECE, translated out of the Latin, from L. S. SCKMEIDER, as it is inserted in the Act a Lipciensia, concerning the Return of the Seed into the Mass of Blood; well worth the Perusal of Physicians, Surgeons, Anatomists, and other Arts and Curiosity.

As also Dr QUINCY's Translation of Dr. CARR's remarkable Answer to a Letter sent by a Divine, concerning two Nuns of Rome, reported to have changed their Sex.

Likewise Dr. DRAKE's and several other Physicians Opinions of Hermaphrodites, and Women brough to a Resemblance of them, by the Practice of Self Pollution, as was the Case of a young Lady of 18, whose well-wrote Letter to the Author describing and lamenting her Condition, is (in order to deter others) inserted.

A very grave and learned Divine and Physician having perused this Discourse, before it went to Press, returned it with his Opinion of it in these Words.

' This little Book ought to be read by all Sorts of ' People of both Sexes, of what Age, Degree, Profession, or Condition soever, guilty, or not guilty of ' the Sin declaimed against in it.

It is now Sold only by J. ISTED, Bookseller, (Mr. Crouch, Bookseller in Pater-Noster-Row being dead) at the Golden Ball between St. Dunstan's Church, and Chancery-Lane, in Fleet-street. Price Stich'd 3 s. Bound 3 s. 6 d.

Where may be had.

The SUPPLEMENT, by itself, Price stich'd, 1 s. 6 d.

ELectuarium Mirable; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed and Safety, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents, being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easy in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases. To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author. Dr. CAM, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden Ball in Bow-Church-yard, Cheapside, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-seller's-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to Spoke with on any occasion. And tho' by their specious Pretences) you are promised a Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Veneral Disease in three Parts, viz.

Verbum sat sapienti.

I, On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Veneral Embraces, Self-pollution improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaeas or Clap. III. On the Veneral Lines, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout, Price 6d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Disseration on the Pox. Dedicated to Sir Hans Sloane . Price 1 s. 6 d. All sold by G. Strahan in Cornhill; J. Wilford behind the Chapter-Coffee-House, St. Paul's-Church-yard, and at the Author's House before mention'd.

