ADVERTISEMENT.

The following Letter was sent to Dr. HENRY in Hatton-Garden, next Holborn, from a Patient, a Gentleman of known Veracity, who for the Benefit of Others in this Disorder, desires it may be made publick, which the Reader may take in his own Words following.

SIR,

I Have the Happiness to inform you, that I am in all Appearance entirely cured of my terrible Headach, and nervous Disorder, which had so grievously afflicted me for two Years successively; I have not perceived the least remaining Symptoms of it these six Mouths past. The present Health I now enjoy, compared with the Memory I still retain of my insupportable Disorder, is so joyful a Change to me, that it would be the greatest Ingratitude should I longer delay to return you my heatty Thanks and Acknowledgment in this publick Manner, who, under God have been the Restorer of my Health, even beyond what every one thought possible, or could have any Reason to hope for.

I here send you a true State of my Illness, to the End that those whose Unhappiness it is to be so afflicted, may, by reading what you have done for me, be encouraged to try the same Advice and Remedies, which if they do, they may safely promise themselves the same Success.

The first beginning of my Illness was going to the East-Indies , for I was Mate of an Indiaman : The first attack was when I crossed the Tropicks, whether it was the Heat of the Place, or the Change of the Air, I know not; but when I was in that Country, I was extremely bad, and came Home in that Condition, expecting my native Country Air would have been of Service to me. I applied to the most eminent Physicians, who only told me it was a nervous Complaint, produced from Excess of Heat, which had stagnated the Juices of the Brain; and after Blistering, Bleeding, Cupping, and a deal of other Means, there was hardly any Relief. It would rage to such a Degree that I was almost distracted; at length it turned to a Vertigo, Giddiness, and Swimmings of the Head. My Pain was mostly in the hinder Part, with beating Noise of Wind, but at Times would lie with such a Weight upon my fore Part of my Head and Eyes, that I was afraid I should entirely lose my Sight; all which affected the Nerves, as brought a Paralyrick Trembling and Weakness all over my Body, with sometimes Convulsions; and the Use of my Speech much impared: I had no Rest Night nor Day, but was huried with confused and irregular Thoughts; my Stomach and Bowels would swell with Wind, then would fly to the Head, and bring on most of the aforesaid Disorders, with a strong Palpitation and trembling of the Heart. This was my miserable Case, and tho' a young Man, had given over Hopes of a Cure, 'till a Gentleman who had been almost in the same Condition as mine, and cured by your nervous Medicine, advised me to apply to you, as the only Person for the Cure of nervous Disorders, which accordingly I did; and sent for a Bottle of your nervous Medicine, with the Pills and Cephalick Snuff for the Head, which cost me Seven Shillings, and was presently relieved: so in a Month's Time I was entirely relieved, freed from my Disorders, and have not taken any Thing these six Months, and have no Apprehension of my Illness returning; for which I return you my most grateful Thanks, under Divine Providence, for my present happy State of Health, which is entirely owing to you.

SIR, Your obliged humble Servant.

WILLIAM CLARKE .

Near the Parsonage Woolwich , Sept. 1741.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 7th of April, 1742.

BEING THE SECOND EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Sir Robert Godschall , Knt .

Number II.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, (held before the Rt. Hon . Sir ROBERT GODSCHALL , Kt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice PARKER, the Hon. Mr. Justice WRIGHT, the Hon. Mr. Baron ABNEY, the Hon. Sir JOHN STRANGE , Knt . Recorder, the Right Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and Others, his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Friday, the 15th, Saturday the 16th, Monday the 18th, and Tuesday the 19th, of January, 1741-2, in the 15th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Thomas Pinks , Stephen Jenkins , Joseph Pig , Jesse Welden , and Christopher Jordan ; also two Women, viz. Eleanor Brown and Margaret Lumley were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon . Sir ROBERT GODSCHALL , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Baron CARTER, the Hon. Mr. Baron ABNEY; the Hon. Mr. Justice BURNET; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder, and Others, his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery, of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday the 24th, Thursday the 25th, Friday the 26th, and Saturday the 27th of February 1741-2, in the 15th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Alexander Afflack , John Lowden , Robert Lloyd , William Plummer , and Morgan or Martin Newland , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were instructed from these Words, Whoso offereth Praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his Conversation aright will I shew the Salvation

of God, Psalm l. 23. From whence I took Occasion to show, that in all our Actions, and through all the Events of Life, it was our indispensable Duty to acknowledge the Goodness of Almighty God, to magnify and adore him for his inestimable Love vouchsafed to us, in sending his only begotten Son into the World to die for our Sins, and to offer up himself a Sacrifice, as an Attonement to reconcile incensed Divine Justice, and miserable lost Man.

As they were all convicted for Theft and Robbery, I thought it not improper to lay before them in the strongest Terms, the unlawfulness of the Sin of Coveteousness, and to shew them how directly contrary the Commission of that Sin was to the express Commands of God, and the Duties taught by Scripture, thro' every Stage of Life. Even in our early Days we are taught in our Catechism not to covet or desire other Men's Goods, but to learn and labour truly to get our own Livings, and to do our Duty in that State of Life unto which it shall please God to call us; the coveting after the perishing Riches and fading Enjoyments of this World can afford us no real Satisfaction, but on the contrary load us with Cares, Troubles, and Anxieties of Soul and Conscience, they are such Acts of Injustice as make Men odious to God, and unfit for human Society; and besides the dreadful Punishment of an hereafter, they are here subject to Pains and Penalties, even Death itself.

As they had but a short Time to live in this World, they were seriously and fervently desired to prepare for their Reception in the next, and to think seriously of that great Change which in a very few Moments they must of Necessity make. In order to which they should not only reflect with Horror on the Wickedness and Sinfulness of their Lives, of the innumerable Instances of their having broken the Commands of Almighty God, and thereby rendered themselves liable to Divine Wrath and Vengeance, both in this Life and that which is to come: But that they should also on Reflection turn unto God with their whole Hearts, humbly implore the Divine Goodness to have Mercy on their lost Souls, and to receive them once more into his Favour.

They were likewise carefully instructed in the Nature of the Holy Sacrament, and taught that by their being made Partakers thereof, they renewed their Baptismal Vows, and prepared themselves for a more joyful Reception in the World to come.

While these and such like Instructions were given, they came to Chapel, and behaved decently as People under their most unhappy Circumstances. Eleanor Brown , Margaret Lumley and Jesse Walden , came always to Chapel, and were in their Carriage quiet and attentive, but not so deeply affected as might be wished. Christopher Jordan was for a good while sick, but when recovered attended, he could not read, and was very ignorant. Stephen Jenkins was sick some Days, but on his Recovery he came constantly up, and was apparently devout. Thomas Pinks and Joseph Pig , while in Health behaved in a becoming manner.

Afflack constantly attended, and behaved well, so did his Companion Lowden, but was quite ignorant. Lloyd behav'd decently and seriously, but growing very sick could not attend. William Plummer was often sick, but recover'd and behav'd well. Morgan or Martin Nowland was a Papist , would not come to Chapel, confest little, and was very ignorant.

Thomas Pinks convicted with Stephen Jenkins of a Robbery on the Highway, 32 Years of Age, was born at Birmingham of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, and instructed him in Christian Principles; his Father (a House-Carpenter) bound him Apprentice to himself, and he served out his Time honestly, lived in the Country afterwards, and behaved well. Some Years ago he came to London , was in constant Business, and wanted for nothing; he married a Wife, and by her had three Children now living. As he was in a good Way of Busi

ness to support himself and Family, he had no Occasion as he owned to take such Courses; but taking too much to that Vice which has been the Means of destroying thousands, i. e. Drinking, he was when in his Cups easily persuaded, and too ready to comply with any wicked Proposals, and as it is a pretty just Remark, that one Extreme generally follows another; so in the Case of Pinks 'twas made plain, for when he was in the Country he did his Duty both to God and Man, went constantly to Church, regularly received the Sacrament, and behaved like a Christian. But on the contrary when he became bad nobody could be more abandoned. He owned the committing several Robberies about 3 or 4, as he said, in Company with Jenkins (whom he drew to the Highway) but the Evidence against him before the Justice made Information of above 27.

Thursday March 25, about 7 in the Morning, the Runners of Newgate opened the Doors of the Cells to give the Prisoners some Necessaries. Pinks while their Backs were towards him, observing the outer strong Door open, slipt out, and went up the Stairs leading to the Chapel, nobody seeing him, the Doors of which were left open for the Plummers who work'd on the Leads, he got nigh the Top of the uppermost little Stair at the Chapel Door, and there he took out the Glass of a Window by the Closet, which is close to the Closet-Window, only the Partition Wall dividing them, there were two small Iron Bars which were half rotten with Age, one of which he pushed out, which made it large enough for him to get through, then he tied a Piece of an old Belt to the other Bar, got out of the Window, and slipt down about 9 foot and a half or 10 foot, and dropt into the Gutter going along the Top of the Wall, if he had slipt an Inch aside he must have fallen down 3 or 4 Stories into the Press-yard upon the Stones, and broken all his Bones. From this he got up to the Roof of the Press-yard, and from thence to the large House contiguous, and then scrambled along the Houses in Pha nix-Court , and got in at a Garret Window of one of the Houses in the said Court facing Warwick-Lane , went through that House, where there was only an old Woman, who was mightily surprized and stupified, suffering him to pass without making any Noise; and got out into Warwick-Lane , his Escape was the more surprizing, because he had been very ill for some Time: The Keepers did all they could to retake him, and were several Days in Pursuit of him, but to no Purpose, notwithstanding their offering a Reward of 20 Guineas to any Person or Persons, who would discover and bring him to Justice.

Thursday the 1st of April, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Eleven Malefactors lying under Sentence of Death, in the Cells of Newgate , when Joseph Pig of Harmonsworth , for stealing 2 Weather Sheep, value 30 s. the Property of Isaac Singer , Jan. 9, Eleanor Brown , of St. Mildred in the Poultry , for assaulting Susannah Nichols in a certain Street, putting her in Fear, &c. and taking from her a Green silk Purse, value 1d. a Steel Seal, value 4d: and 16 s. in Money, Jan. 4, and Margaret Lumley alias Burgess , of St. George Bloomsbury , for stealing a silver Mug, a silver Tankard, a silver Salver, a silver Cup, two silver Pepper Castors, a silver Punch Ladle, a silver saucepan, a silver Salt, 6 silver Tea Spoons, a pair of silver tea tongs, a pair of silk Shoes, a pair of Clogs, 4 cloth Coats, 2 cloth Waistcoats, a pair of cloth Breeches, a Gold Ring set with 6 Diamonds, a silk Gown, a silk Petticoat, 2 Shirts, 3 Sheets, a Gold Ring, a Gold Ring set with a Garnet, and 4 Diamonds, the Goods of John Simmonds , a Gold Ring with a Cypher, and a pair of Gold Ear-rings set with Garnets, the Goods of Katherine Simmonds , in the Dwelling House of John Simmonds , Dec. 23, the other eight, viz. Stephen Jenkins , Jesse Wal

den, Christopher Jordan , Alexander Afflack , John Lowden , Robert Lloyd , William Plummer , and Morgan Nowland were ordered for Execution.

Thomas Pinks and Stephen Jenkins , were indicted for assaulting Francis Simmonds on the King's Highway, in the Parish of St. Leonard Shoreditch , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him 36 Fowls, value 2 l. 10 s. a Sack, value 1 s. a Pair of Hawking Bags, value 9 d. a Knife, value 2 d. and 1 s. 3 d. the Goods and Money of the said Simmonds, and a Guinea and 3 l. the Money of Persons unknown, Dec. 1.

The Account of Pinks who made his Escape, is given as above.

1. Stephen Jenkins , 26 Years of Age, born in Wiltshire of honest Parents, who educated him at School in Reading, Writing, and Accompts, and instructed him in his Christian Duty; his Father when he was young came to London , and put his Son when of Age to a Blacksmith , with whom Stephen served his Time honestly, and work'd Journeywork , he married a Wife by whom he had four Children, all dead, though she is now with Child of a 5th, he as well as his Companion Pinks might have lived honest by his own Industry, having always Employment, till Idleness, Drink and bad Company, hastened his Destruction. He confessed the Robbery for which he died, that they took from Simmonds the Money and Fowls mentioned in the Indictment, and that he cruelly beat the old Man with his Fists and Pistol, and used him very barbarous; he also own'd the committing one other Robbery, but would confess no more, tho' he said he had done some small Thefts, and alledged that Pinks advised him to the Highway. He behaved well and penitent, attending constantly and carefully in Chapel, said he believed in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

Jesse Walden , of St. Mary Whitechaple , was indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling House of Thomas Law about 2 in the Night, and stealing a Brass Stewpan, value 2 s. 2 Brass Saucepans, value 2 s, a pair of Leather Shoes, value 4 s. a Camblet Cloak, value 6 d. the Goods of the said Thomas Law , Dec. 13.

2. Jesse Walden , 27 Years of Age, came of honest Parents in London , who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Accompts, and instructed him in our Holy Faith. When of Age he was put Apprentice to a Butcher in Houndsditch , where he served his Time, and when out of his Time was much employed about Leaden-hall Market , got a pretty living, and might have done very well, had not his associating himself with vile Company brought him to commit such Acts as totally destroyed his former good Character, and forced him to go to Sea , to seek that Living he had by his Folly and Roguery lost at Land; he served on Board several Merchant Men, as well as Men of War, in the Capacity of a Butcher , was with Sir John Norris's Fleet 4 or 5 Years ago all the Time they lay at Lisbon , and had on Board in the general a good Character, tho' his Misfortune was, whenever he came Home he always sought out his old Companions, and by their Persuasions practiced over again his old Roguery. He came but lately Home in a Man of War from Carolina , left the Ship and his Wages, which amounts to a pretty large Sum, for the Sake of his darling Companions and Thieving. He did not deny the Robbery, but said it was only a Shed he broke into and not a Dwelling-House. Sometime ago he turned Evidence in Essex , and hanged two of his own Companions with whom he had committed divers Robberies, for which they reflected on him, and called him Murtherer, alledging that he had sworn falsely against them. He declared as a dying Man, that tho' they were executed on his Oath, yet every Thing he swore against them was entire

ly true without any Malice, and only to save his own Life. He was a good while under Sentence, always behaved well, and came constantly to Chapel, and to Appearance was penitent. Before the last Sessions he and all of them except Brown, devoutly received the blessed Sacrament at their own Desire, to remind and keep them as they said in their Duty, and prepare them for Eternity. He hoped for Salvation through the Mercy of God in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

Christopher Jordan , of St. Luke, Middlesex , was indicted for assaulting Thomas Colt in a certain Court called Hartshorn-Court , near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Hat, value 7 s. a Wig, value 8 s. a Guinea and 4 s. in Money.

3. Christopher Jordan , 19 Years of Age, came of honest mean Parents, who gave him hardly any Education; his Father a Shoemaker opposite St. Luke's Church , died when Christopher was very young, and left him to the Care of his Mother, who could do but very little for him. Kit's chief Employment while young was running of Errands till he grew stronger, and then he sold Fish or Fruit, and such like Things about the Streets ; he had a Wife, by whom he had no Children, who as she did then, still follows the same Business. He was a vicious young Man, too much guilty of Whoring, Swearing and Drinking, as well as Thieving; 'tis not much above a Twelvemonth ago since he was tried at the Old-Bailey for a Robbery and acquitted, though he was guilty of that as well as several others; however, it had such an Effect on him at that Time, that he determined to lead a new Life. But these Resolutions, like most others made by such People when in Danger and Confinement, vanished when he had had his full Swing of Liberty. He wept plentifully, and though he could not evade the positive Evidence of three Witnesses, who swore when he was taken up, as soon as he saw Colt he fell upon his Knees, and begged him not to prosecute him, for if he did he should be hanged, which an innocent Man would hardly have done. I say, notwithstanding this he denied the Fact.

The 13th of March about 9 at Night, Jordan (while Jenkins his Companion was standing on a Table to speak to somebody in the Press-Yard from the Cell Window) endeavoured to strangle himself, by drawing a Selvidge of Cloth strait around his Neck, which he so near affected, that he was out of his Senses, and very nigh gone, if Jenkins had not that Instant discovered it, he would certainly have been dead, for 'twas with much Difficulty he was brought to himself. Being asked the Reason of such on Attempt, he said 'twas on Account of his great Want, and his Wives unkindness in marrying or co-habiting with another Man before he was dead; however he was very sharply reproved by all the rest of his Fellow Sufferers, particularly by Mrs. Brown. I also endeavoured to convince him how great a Sin that of Self-Murther was, that he had already been but too great a Sinner, and that this was heaping Crime upon Crime, just at a Time too when he was or should be endeavouring to make his Peace with an offended tho' merciful God; he wept bitterly, promised not to attempt the like any more, (though this was his 2d Attempt) and said he hoped in God's Mercy for Forgiveness through Christ, that he repented of all his Sins, and heartily forgave all Men.

Alexander Afflack , and John Lowden , of St. James's, Westminster , were indicted for breaking and entering the dwelling House of Andrew Stock , about 8 at Night, and stealing 12 Pair of silver Shoe-Buckles, 3 Pair of silver Knee-Buckles, 60 Pair of Pinchbeck Metal Buckles, 4 Gold Rings set with Doublets, 5 silver Stay Hooks set with Bristol Stones, one Gold Ring, 5 Gold Rings set with Garnets, 50 Pinchbeck Metal Rings, two Pair of Chris

tal Buttons set in Gold, 36 Silver Thimbles, 20 Pinchbeck Metal Thimbles, a Pocket-book, an Ivory Pocket-book, a Tortoiseshel Pocket-book, an Egyptian Peble Snuff-box, a silver Coral, with 8 Bells, one silver Stock-buckle sett with Bristol Stones, and 5 Glass Smelling-Bottles, with Pinckbeck Metal Collars and Stoppers, the Goods of the said Andrew Stock , January 15, Afflack guilty, Lowden acquited, but found guilty of another Indictment upon his own Account.

4. Alexander Afflack was 29 Years of Age, born of honest, respected Parents at Leith , his Father, as he said, come to London when he was not above 5 or 6 Years old, and kept a Tavern in St. Martin's-Lane , where they put him to School, and gave him good Education; but his Father dying, and his Mother marrying again, Alexander was put Apprentice to Mr. Lee, a Barber and Peruke-maker near Doctors-Commons to whom he served out his Time honestly, and worked for sometime as a Journeyman : But falling into vile Company, he soon became as vile, or more so, than they, and was guilty of almost all Manner of Vices; his Companion John Lowden , turn'd Evidence against him sometime ago, and he was tried at the Old-Bailey , and acquitted; 'twas on this Occasion, that Afflack and Lowden afterwards became so intimate, for Afflack soon forgave him, and they became Partners in Thieving; he had been twice before in Newgate , and has been in several other Goals, and always had the good Fortune 'till now, to come off. He was in short, a most irregular, wicked Fellow, guilty of all manner of Vices. He has three Wives now living, by all of whom he has had Children, though they are dead; neither of his Wives, except his first, came to visit him. While he was under Condemnation, he got a Watch restored to a Watchmaker near Bloomsbury , from whose Shew-Glass he had sometime before stole it. He attended constantly in Chapel, appeared very regular, penitent and serious in his Devotions; he, Walden, and the other, were frequently heard praying and singing Psalms all Night, so that it may reasonably be supposed, they were true penitents. The Sunday before he died, he desired to receive the Holy Sacrament, which he did very devoutly, with the rest, except Lloyd, who was sick, and Nowland of another Persuasion. He believed in Christ our only Saviour, sincerely repented of all his most notorious Sins, and forgave all Men as he expected forgiveness from God.

N. B. About 5 Months ago, Afflack was taken up on Suspicion of a Robbery (for which two Boys were executed and denied the Fact) being sent to St. James's Round-House , a young Woman was brought in there, charged with a Robbery done in York-Buildings , which Robbery he himself had committed, and tho' he said nothing at that Time, the Woman being an absolute Stranger to him, yet he could not be easy, not knowing what might become of the poor innocent Woman, 'till he had sent Word to the Person robb'd, which he did last Sunday.

John Lowden , of St. Paul's, Covent-Garden , was indicted for privately stealing a Silver Watch, value 40 s. from the Person of William Payne , Jan. 13.

5. John Lowden , was 22 Years of Age, born of honest Parents near Covent-Garden , who gave him Education at School, in reading, writing, &c. to fit him for Business, which he so little minded, that he had really forgot his Reading; when of Age, he was bound Apprentice to his own Father, a Watch and Clock-maker , to whom he served, (or rather neglected to serve) five Years; he was a wicked Youth, far from minding any Business at all, ever neglectful, never constant, all Advice or Reproof was thrown away upon him, and if his Father offered to beat him, he would immediately run away and be gone for Weeks, in which Time he frequented the

Company of profligate Whores and Thieves, to support whom, he went Thieving himself; he owned his turning Evidence against Afflack, and that it was the Occasion of their becoming inseperable Companions, that he had been a most wicked and abandoned Youth, and that he deservedly suffered. He believed in Christ, repented of his many and great Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

William Plummer , alias Chrichlowm , was indicted for that he, on the 21st of January, feloniously made, and forged a certain Counterfeit Order in Writing, directed to Mr. Alexander, in Wood-street , &c. with Intent to defraud William Alexander , and Comp.

6. William Plummer , 24 Years of Age, came of honest Parents, in this Town, who gave him good Education at School, and taught him the Duties of the Christian Religion; when of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Cabinet-maker , whom he served faithfully; after which, he lived by working as a Journeyman , and did very well; he married a Wife, and by her had several Children; he was generally in constant Business, and got sufficient for the Maintenance of himself and Family; he was often employed by the Undertakers , and was that very Day he forged the Note, to have gone to Hertford with a Funeral. He was a sober young Man, and had the general Esteem of his Masters, for his Honesty and Integrity.

Having Occasion to raise some Money, he called a Porter from Gray's-Inn-Gate , and going to the Elephant and Castle , forged the following Order.

To Mr. Alexander, over-against St. Alban's-Church , in Woodstreet .

" Send by the Porter, one Sett of Brass-Work for Drawers, fifteen Handles, nine " Locks, six Escutcheons, two Keys, one " Tenants Saw, two Setts of three Shilling " Leather Castors, and a Sett of Ditto Brass " for the Use of me,

William Gough .

and sent the Porter directly to Mr. Alexanders with it, Mr. Coking, Mr. Alexander's Servant, doubting the Veracity of the Note, carried it to Mr. Combs, who asked the Porter if he came from Mr. Gough, the Porter told him he did not know Mr. Gough, but that the Person who wrote that Paper was at the Elephant and Castle in Holborn , waiting for his Return, whither they went along with him and found Plummer waiting, whom they immediately apprehended, and he confessed the Fact.

He was sick some Part of the Time of his Confinement, and could not come out of his Cell, but after his Recovery he gave constant Attendance at Chapel, appeared very serious and devout, tho' very pale, disheartned and terrified at the Apprehensions of Death; few or none came after him but his disconsolate Wife. He believed in Christ our only Saviour, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

Robert Lloyd of St. Dunstans in the West , was indicted for stealing 3 Linnen Money Bags, value 3 d. 50 3 l. 12 s. Pieces, 100 Moidores, 400 Guineas, and 40 l. in Money, of John Simpson and Thomas Ward , in their Dwelling House, Jan. 9.

7. Robert Lloyd 27 Years of Age, was born in Denbighshire in North Wales , of honest reputable Parents, who gave him good Education at School to fit him for Business, and taught him Religious Principles, not being put to any Trade, he did Country-work while in the Country, coming to Town he served as a Footman to several Gentlemen, and behaved very honest, in one of his Services he married a Wife, who was his Fellow Servant, and by her has three Children

now living, who will be taken Care of he says by the Kindness of some Gentlemen of Distinction. He owned that he had been very wicked in Drinking, Gaming, and breaking the Sabbath, for which he sincerely intreated Pardon and Forgiveness from Almighty God. He confessed the robbing, at least the Design of robbing Messrs Simpson and Ward, Bankers in Fleet-street , and that he was put upon it by his own Brother Edward Lloyd and Robert Lucas , he said his Brother Edward and Lucas had been for some Time contriving how to attempt this most daring Enterprize before they said any Thing to him about it, but that they continually haunted and teized him to associate himself with them, not discovering to him their real Design, but that they should get a great deal of Money by smuggling, running Tea, &c. much more than he could get by living in Service, and accordingly took him from several Places, and keeping his Head always confused with Gin and other Liquors, they at last they opened to him their villainous Design, which he had so little Grace as to be easily drawn into. And accordingly being all three provided with Pistols on the 9th of Jan. last, they in a desperate and audacious Manner, in the open broad Day light, about 3 in the Afternoon, attempted to rob the Shop of Messrs Ward and Simpson, as follows: Edward Lloyd and Robert Lucas went into the Shop first, and Robert Lloyd followed, and they asked the young Man Mr. Wethersden for Mr. Frankland, he telling them he knew no such one, they replied, D - n you, you are the Man, and immediately clapp'd a Pistol to his Breast, threatning to shoot him thro' the Head if he offered to stir, then Robert Lloyd fetched the 3 Bags from behind the Counter, and immediately Wethersden cryed out, Thieves! Murder! &c. which making a great Bustle and Noise, and in the Confusion Robert Lloyd 's Pistol going off, Edward Lloyd and Lucas opened the Door, and ran directly out of the Shop cross the Way up Chancery-Lane , and got quite off, the Door falling too again of itself after Edward Lloyd and Lucas got out, Robert Lloyd was shut in, but he directly opened it again, and made his Way up Chancery-Lane into a Place called Crown-Court , which is no thorough fare, and being immediately pursued he was taken, and carried before a Magistrate, where he confessed the whole, and desired to be admitted an Evidence, but as there was no Probability of finding the other two, and there being sufficient Evidence against him, 'twas determined to make him an Example for such a daring Piece of Villainy.

He owned himself privy to his Brother Edward's stealing a Silver Spoon at Maidenhead , and that it was sold when they came to Town, but he received no Part of the Money; this and the above Fact was all he was guilty of, as he expected nothing but Death. He behaved very penitently, believed in Christ the Son of God, repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

Martin alias Morgan Nowland , of St. Clements Danes , was indicted for unlawfully, and feloniously procuring Thomas Meredith a Subject of our Sovereign Lord the King, to serve the King of France as a Soldier , (he being a foreign Prince) without the Consent of our Lord the King, under his Sign Manual first had and obtained, in Contempt of our said Lord the King and his Laws, &c. &c.

8. Morgan or Martin Nowland , about 36 Years of Age, was born of mean Parents in Ireland , who gave him but little Education, and brought him up to no Trade, he chiefly followed Country Business , and in Harvest or Hay Time used to come over to England , he has a Wife and Children in Ireland .

Sometime ago he went from London to Calais , on Pretence of visiting his Brother, a Soldier there, from whence he returned to London , intending to go for Ireland , but meeting with some Soldiers at Work on the Keys, he tamper'd with them about listing in the French King's Service, promising them 5 d. Halfpenny a Day, and four Loaves a Week each, as big as a Threepenny Loaf, and when they came over to the Regiment to have 4 Guineas advance each Man. From the Keys they went into the Borough, and drank Beer, and then Nowland took 'em to his own Quarters in Kent-street , where he treated them with Gin, from whence they found means to decoy him to the Savoy , where they likewise drank together, and then he gave Meredith 6 d. Earnest to list in the French Service, and upon

proper Advice they took him up, carried him before a Justice, and he was committed to Newgate . He was very obstinate, and denied that he belonged to the French Service, notwithstanding a Furloe was taken from him by one of the Soldiers, which he endeavouring to take again tore a Bit off, which Furloe was produced in Court, and being translated from the French runs thus:

" Foot, Regiment of Dillon.

" We who have undersign'd this, do certifie " all concern'd, that we have given Leave for " six Months, to one named Martin Nowland , a " Soldier in the Company of Capt. Morris, in the " Regiment of Dillon, in the Jurisdiction of " (Blank) aged 35 Years, Height 5 Feet one " Inch and a half; Chesnut colour'd Hair, blue " Eyes, and pretty much sunk in his Face, " and very meagre Countenance.

Given at Bethune , Dec. 25. 1741.

Sign'd Morris.

" Counter sign'd by us Lieutenant Colonel " Gavon; commanding the Regiment of Dillon.

" Certified by us Captain Adjutant of the Regiment of Dillon.

O'Hara."

He was very much bigotted to the Romish Faith , would confess nothing, but denied every Thing. Died in the Faith of Christ, and forgave all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Day before they suffered in the Afternoon, all of them (except Nowland th Irishman) received the Holy Communion very devoutly. Christopher Jordan wept much, praying earnestly to God to pardon his Sins, and to receive him into his Mercy. There was a Man happen'd to be in Chapel who had done him a very great Injury, whom (upon the Desire of a Reverend Clergyman) he freely forgave.

They were convey'd to the Place of Execution in three Carts, and a Mourning Coach.

In the first Cart were,

Alexander Afflack , Jesse Walden the Butcher , and Christopher Jordan .

In the second Cart were, Stephen Jenkins and William Plummer .

In the third Cart were,

Robert Lloyd (concerned with his own Brother, and one Lucas, in attempting to rob Messrs Ward and Simpson, Bankers in Fleet-street , of a large Sum of Money) and Morgan Nowland the Irishman.

And in the Mourning Coach, John Lowden .

When they came to the Place of Execution, they were composed and serious in Prayers, sung Psalms to the Glory of God, and to all outward Appearance, seem'd very much affected with their dismal and unhappy Circumstances.

The Day before they died, two Gentlemen came to William Plummer , to ask him where he had disposed of some Goods they had entrusted him with? and he directed them to two Houses not far from Moorfields , where he had pawn'd them. He wept very much, and told them at the same Time, that he had written to several whom he had injured, and endeavour'd all in his Power to do Justice to every Body he had any Ways wrong'd. Jesse Walden owned the Justice of his Sentence, and that he deserved Death. Christopher Jordan and Alexander Afflack reflected on their Prosecutors. John Lowden confessed his taking Mr. Payne's silver Watch, and that he was justly prosecuted. Stephen Jenkins own'd the Robbery he died for and one more, but no other capital Crimes. Robert Lloyd own'd the Justice of his Sentence, and to his former Confessions added, that he was concerned in robbing his late Master of Hackney to the Value of 7 or 8 l. And likewise that he and his Brother and Lucas, had a Design to rob Lucas's Master who lived in Cheapside , of the Church Plate, he being at that Time Church-Warden. Morgan Nowland would

say nothing, but continued reading in a printed Manual, being a Roman Catholick . They went off the Stage crying to God to have Mercy, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

Ts is all the Account given by me

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX:

The following Account Jesse Walden gave of himself a few Days before he died.

I AM now about 27 Years of Age, and was born in the Parish of St. Leonard Shoreditch , of reputable Parents, who gave me a good Education, and put me to School to one Mr. Child, in Shoreditch , and afterwards to Mr. Pattison in Grubstreet . I continued at School till I was nine Years old; then I served Mr. Willan a Hosier, in Cornhill , as an Erraand Boy ; but upon his failing, I quitted that Service with a very good Character, and was put Apprentice to William Thompson , a Butcher in Shoreditch, with whom I serv'd 5 Years very honestly, and then I absented from him, and entered on board the Mountague Man of War , where I staid about 8 Months, from thence I transferred myself on board the Rippon, in which Ship I went to Lisbon , and was there with the Fleet under Sir John Norris . From thence I came to England , and served the Remainder of my Apprenticeship, and my Master was so generous as to allow me all the Pay which was due to me on board the above Ships. When my Time was expired, I work'd Journey-work with several Masters, and the first Acquintance I ever had in ill Practices was, with one Tom Easter , who lived in Shoreditch , and with whom, (after having drank pretty freely together) I agreed to go upon the Highway.

Accordingly Easter, another Person, and I, robbed Mr. Evans, and Mr. Smalt, in a Chaise near Newington Green Turnpike , on the 19th of June, about the Close of the Evening. We took from them a silver Watch, and about ten Shillings in Money.

After this, Easter and I went into Goodman's-Fields , and after we had lain there all Night, I got one Jack Rigby to pawn the Watch for us, and he accordingly did pawn it for us in his Father's Name, at a House in Angel-Alley , for 2 Guineas.

Rigby was afterwards, through his own Folly, taken up for this Robbery, and put one Tom Brown into his Information, who was entirely Innocent, and I don't know that he ever committed any Robbery at all.

However, Rigby not being able to prove his Information clearly, the Justice committed him and Brown, and they afterwards received their Trial at the Old-Bailey , when Brown was acquited, and Rigby capitally Convicted; but afterwards was reprieved for Transportation.

After this, Tom Easter and I committed another Robbery near Sir George Whitmore 's at Hoxton , on a Gentleman, from whom we took a silver Watch, which I pawn'd for 2 Guineas and eight Shillings in Money.

The next Robbery I committed, was with Easter's Assistance, on a Gentleman near the Pindar of Wakefield , whom we robbed of 15 Guineas and 30 s. in Silver.

Easter and I then parted: he went down into Norfolk , and I into Kent , where I might have lived very well, and maintained myself by following my own Trade; but having a great Inclination to be near the Place of my Birth, I could not make myself easy, so I came to London again. I, after this, went to Harwich in Essex , and shipp'd myself on board a Collier, John Longdon , Commander , who was then confined in Harwich Goal for running down a fishing Sloop, belonging to one Moore, and for which he was afterwards tried and honourably acquitted.

In this Ship I made two Voyages to Sunderland ; but not being contented there, I left her at Whitby in Yorkshire , and went to North-Shields , where I shipped myself on board the Mermaid, of Yarmouth, Thomas Cushion , Master , for a Guinea and half to come to London . I staid in London 'till I had spent the greatest Part of my Money, and then went down into Kent , where I met with Anthony Bowers , John Wibourne , and Thomas Leggit , and we jointly agreed to go out upon our former ill Practices; pursuant to which Agreement we went out, and did several trivial Things, contrary to my Inclinations, and to prove my Fidelity to them, that I was not afraid, I made them stand still while I committed divers Robberies.

Upon my Informing them of my dislike of this low Way of Thieving, and telling them it was much better to do a Thing which would turn out advantagious to us, than daily run such Hazards as we did for such Trifles, we at last fixed upon the House of Robert Willis , of Stroud , and jointly agreed to break it open, and we accomplish'd our Design by cutting the Grove of the Window, by which means the Shutter fell to the Ground. We then broke a large Pane of Glass, after which, we disputed who should go in; at last I agreed to enter the House, and accordingly did, and brought out Linnen, Lace, Lawn, &c. to the Value of two hundred Pounds and upwards, according to the Prosecutor's own Account. I thinking myself to have had the greatest Share of the Danger in this Affair, thought I might reasonably demand more than my Share of the Plunder; and on my first getting into the House, before I looked for any Thing, I opened the Street-door to let my Companions in; but they not being conformable to my Directions, I left them, taking a large Quantity of Lace for myself, it being the lightest Carriage, and I having the farthest to travel, for they went to Chatham , and I to London .

On my coming to London , I sold some of the Goods to divers Persons, and after I had put myself in a genteel Sort of a Garb, I purchased a Horse, and rode into Norfolk , where I sold the remaining Part of my ill-gotten Treasure. Having spent some Time at Norfolk , I went to Eltham , with a View of finding out my old Friend Tom Easter , whom I had left some Time before; but I was disappointed of seeing him, he being gone for London 4 Days before.

From Norwich I came to London , and committed several Robberies by myself as I came along, to the Amount of 14 or 15 Pounds.

When I arrived at London , I lay still some Time without doing any Thing, 'till one Day I went out with a Design to go to Beconsfield , in Buckinghamshire , to rob the Lace People; and after I had got a little Way out of Acton , I unexpectedly met with Tom Easter , and not knowing him at a Distance, I was preparing to give him the usual Salute, of Stand and Deliver, and he the same to me; but when we came nearer, all our Animosities were turned into our former Friendship.

Upon enquiring into each other's Affairs, we agreed to go upon our old Practices, and accordingly we went to Tottenham High-Cross , the same Night, with a View of exchanging our Horses, which we thought was no great Robbery, and after we had so done, we came to London , and went directly for Rumford , and between Rumford and Chelmsford we stopped a Coach and four, from which we got Money, Watches and Rings, to the Value of 20 l.

We then went to Wyndham , and Easter disliking his Horse, turned him loose, and took another out of an enclosed Ground, which proved very good for our Purposes. From Wyndham , we went to Colchester , where we staid some Time, and crossed the Country to Bury in Suffolk , and my Horse falling Sick there, Easter and I went out one Evening upon the Heath, both on one Horse. We had not been there long, before a Gentleman came riding towards us, pretty fast, which I believe he repented, not thinking that Highwaymen rode double; for upon his coming up, I dismounted, and made the Gentleman do the same; and I took from him a Silver Watch, 2 Guineas, his Horse, Bridle and Sadle, and rode directly to Thetford in Norfolk , ten Miles distant from Bury , where we lay all Night.

The next Morning we got up, designing to go to Downham , but upon meeting a Gentleman on the Common some Distance from Thetford , he desired us to direct him in his Way thither: I very civilly asked him to give us his Money, and I would tell him; upon which, he gave us about 3 Pounds in Money; but he hoping we would

give him something to bear his Expences, we return'd him 5 s. of his Money again.

After this, we went to Lynn , where we staid 'till we had spent our Money, and then went towards Houghton , and in our Way thither, met one of the Earl of Orford's Servants, whom we stopped and robbed of 6 s. 6 d. and a Silver Pocket Piece, worth about half a Crown, and upon his pleading Poverty, we returned it to him again. He had no sooner left us, but three Men came over the Hedge, whom he told, how he had been serv'd, and because he could not fare well but must cry Roast Meat, I went back and took all the Money from him, and rode directly for Houghton , and from thence we went to Holt , where we played several Pranks, by stealing Geese, and inviting the Owners of them to Sup off them.

From Holt , we went to Croner , where in the Dusk of an Evening, we met a Man on Horseback: We asked, who came there? and he not answering in a handsome Manner, we took his Money from him, which amounted to 4 Shillings, and which (he said) he bad been to receive for shoeing Horses. He told us, he was a poor Man, and had a large Family; upon which, we returned him the Money again, with the Addition of another Shilling to drink our Healths, at the same Time charging him for the future to give better Manners to Gentlemen on the Road, and not tell any body how he had been robb'd. He promised he would not even tell his Wife, for he knew (he said) a Woman could not keep a Secret.

From Croner we went to Eltham in Norfolk , where we stole a Horse belonging to the Parson of the Town, but not liking him, we turn'd him adrift again, and rode to Norwich , where we put up at the Bell , and diverted ourselves for some Time in what the Town afforded.

From thence we came to London , and between Elden and Barton Mills , about eight in the Morning we saw a Gentleman coming along at a Distance, upon which (there being several Tracks in the Road) I ordered Easter to go into one to stop the Gentleman, if he came in his Way, and I determined to do the same if he came into mine.

It happened, he met with me, upon which, I rode up to him, with the usual Word, desiring him not to be 'frighted, but I must have his Money. He rode from me, but People of our Business, seldom having bad Horses, I overtook him, and swore I would shoot him. He not stopping, I cross'd the Road upon him, thinking he could not jump over me, but he turned back and rode up to Easter, who was in the Road at a Distance, and said, Sir, I am likely to be robbed, for that Man is a Highwayman! Sir, (said Easter) I am afraid you are, and taking hold of his Horse's Reins, pulled out a Pistol, and demanded his Money. Why (said the Gentleman) I took you for an honest Man! So I am (said Easter) because I rob the Rich to give to the Poor. I then jump'd off my Horse and made the Gentleman alight, and took from him a Gold Watch, a Diamond Ring, a Mourning Ring, a Guinea, one Shilling, and a Halfpenny; after which, we turned his Horse loose at a great Distance from him.

After this, we rode about three Miles 'cross the Country, and then my Horse tiring, I put him into a Barn, and got up behind Easter, and rode with him two Miles, and then made him dismount; upon which, we had a few Words: but I threaten'd to shoot the Horse, and so made him easy.

I then turned the Horse a-drift, and each of us threw away our Whips and Spurs, and walked about 8 Hours, and then Night coming on, we put up at the House of one Wall, a Butcher, at a Town in Norfolk , who informed us, that the Gentleman whom we last robb'd, as above, was the Surgeon of Brigadier Churchill's Regiment. I told him, he must repair his Loss, by enlarging his Bills upon his Patients; but he found another Way, for it being between Sun and Sun, he sued the County, and swore he lost 40 Guineas; and other Things, and I don't doubt but he recovered it.

Some Time after this, we came to London , and after staying a while, and getting fresh Horses, we went to Brentford , and from thence to Maidenhead , where we robbed the Reading Stage-Coach; but this not answering our Expectations, we went to Marlborough , and upon the Downs there, we met with the Bristol Stage-Coach, but not getting above ten Pounds out of it, we came to London again, and went to Stratford, by Bow , where Easter and I stopped three Coaches all at

once: I stopped the first, and Easter the last, so that the middlemost could not get out of the way; we got but a Trifle there, so we went to Brentford again, and cross'd the Water into Surrey , intending to go that Way to London ; but upon Putney-Heath , I alighted to go into the Ditch, and a Man rode up to Easter, and demanded his Money. I seeing him disputing with the Gentleman, made what Haste I could to his Assistance, when he told me he was in Danger of being robb'd; I said to the Man, I believe you are but a * Scamp Cull, or else you would not go to stop old Collectors. However, he admitting his Errors, and acknowledging his Fault, we consented to make it up with him, on Condition of his giving us a Treat: and he thereupon proposed a Supper at Wandsworth , which we accepted of, and afterwards parted from him.

We then came to London , to our Misfortune as I then thought, for putting up at the White-Bear , in Old-Street , we were both apprehended by Long Charles , Dick Wornell , and John Boyte , and committed to New-Prison . I was admitted an Evidence against Easter, by Justice Poulson, but I never appeared against him, for he was capitally Convicted for a Robbery, in which I was not concerned, upon Mr. Mills, and Mr. Hill, by Devil's-Lane , near Hornsey .

The February Sessions following, I was brought to the Old-Bailey , to be tried for Mr. Evans's Robbery as above, but he dying before I could be tried, I was acquitted of that, but remanded back to Newgate , in order to be carried down to the Assizes held for Kent, to be an Evidence against Bowers and Wibourne, for robbing Mr. Willis of Stroud .

Accordingly the Assizes drawing near, I was carried to Kent , and when I came there, Wibourn had been admitted an Evidence above a Month before by Mr. Waters of Stroud; but I being moved down by a Habeas Conpusad Justificandum, my Evidence was accepted, and Bowers and Wibourn were capitally convicted, Leggit not being then taken.

From hence I was again carried to Newgate , in order to be discharged by Order of Court, and was brought to the Old-Bailey , but the Lord Mayor not being then present, I was referred to him as a proper Person to serve his Majesty, and on my Petitioning his Lordship, he sent my Discharge, and one of his Officers to see me safe on board a Tender.

Accordingly I went on board the Dunkirk Man of War, as Ship's Butcher , and might have lived very well; but being sent on board contrary to my own Inclinations, I was always meditating which way I should escape, and after we had been out two Months cruising on the Privateers, without meeting with any Thing according to our Admirals Expectation, we went towards Plymouth , to refit and clean, and in our way, we met a large Spanish Privateer, call'd, the St. Sebastian, of St. Sebastian's, who had taken the most Prizes of any Vessel belonging to Spain, to the great Disadvantage of the English Merchants. In short we took her, and 2 Prizes which she had got in Tow, and they were all brought safe by the Thetford, and other Ships into Plymouth , and we not being a Quarter of a Mile from Shore, I thought I might then escape.

Accordingly, stripping myself and tying my Cloaths up in a Handkerchief, about my Head, I swam ashore, and came to London , where I had not been forty-eight Hours, before I robb'd Mr. Humphries of Mile end, of Goods of small Value, for which I was apprehended, and being tried at the Old-Bailey , was convicted, and received Sentence of Transportation.

Pursuant to this Sentence, on the 19th of November last, was 12 Months, I was put on board the Harponier Transport, John Wilson Commander , to be sent to Virginia , and after a long and dangerous Passage, we arriv'd in Hampton River , the 10th of March following; and when we had lain in that River sometime, we went higher up to Rapahanock River , to a Place called Brays-Church , were I was sold the 1st of April, to one George Underwood , who paid for me 1600 weight of Tobacco, and 2 Casks, and he then sent me to one Jeremiah Struther , with whom I lived 5 Weeks, but not agreeing, he sold me to one Samuel Kennelly , at a Place called the Picked

* A Highwayman.

Mountain, very far to the Northward in Virginia.

After I had been with him about a Month, I was very much discontented, that I should work 7 Years for nothing, and therefore my Thoughts were always taken up in meditating my Escape, which I accomplished by taking his Horse, a Peck of Meal, and what other Necessaries I wanted, and steered my Course away one Night in very bad Weather, in thundering and raining all the Night, which I thought was very advantageous to my Purpose; for I imagined, and not without Reason, that my Master would hardly chuse to go far after me in such bad Weather.

I made the best of my Way 'till I came to a Place called Hern's Ordinary , within 7 Miles of Fredericksburgh , and then a Man, who was sent with a Hue and Cry after me, met me in the Road. Upon his meeting me, he asked me, if I had not seen a stray Horse, I told him, I had not, upon which, he rode past me about 50 Yards, and then turned back upon me.

I having a guilty Conscience, presently knew him to be one Hunt, my Master's Smith, and when we came to a House, he told me, he must speak with me, and I should stop: I answered him, that I was upon hasty Business, and he, nor no Man should stop me; upon which, he drew a Ctlass, and aim'd a Blow at my Head, which I made him repent, for having a Hedging Bill in my Hand, I was obliged to fight to vindicate myself, chusing rather to suffer Death than to go back to be used in such a barbarous Manner as I should have been.

I therefore endeavoured to do him as much Mischief as he did me, but, to my great Joy, I did not kill him, for I only struck him on the Arm, and knocked him off his Horse:

After this, I was obliged to ride into the Woods, through which I travelled 'till I had got 8 Miles beyond Fredericksburgh , and then Night coming on, I ventured into the open Road, and kept on my Journey 'till Day-light, when I turned my Horse a-drift, and lay all Day in the Woods, mixing up my Meal in my Hat into Dough, which I bak'd for my Subsistance by a Fire in the Woods, having what they call Punk to get a light with.

I then travelled down to a Place called West-Point , on the Edge of York-River , where I arrived about eleven at Night: Here I thought my Journey was stopped, for the River was at least 3 Miles wide, so that it was impossible for me to swim over; but I providentially heard a Boat approaching towards me.

I waited very quietly in Hopes of making myself Master of it, and it answered my Expectation, for the Men came on Shore, and left the Boat; upon which I jump'd into it, having first cut down a Pine Bush, which being fixed in the Boat, served me for Mast and Sail. I then shov'd my Boat off, and before I had got half Way over the River, my Boat was almost full of Water; I thought I must have perished inevitably; but taking good Heart, I applyed myself to throwing out the Water with my Hat, and with some Difficulty, I reached the Shore.

I was now 17 Miles from Williamsburgh , and made the best of my Way to Colonel Worrel's Ferry, on the Edge of James River , which was 5 Miles over, were I thought to hide myself 'till Night, but the Man of the Ferry happened to see me, upon which I went up to him, and he accosted me with, Sir, are you going over? I told him, I had no Money to pay my Ferryage, which made him scruple me. He said, he believed I was a Runaway: I told him, I was sorry for his Folly, and that he should have no more Sense, for I could with Ease, know a Runaway by his Looks.

He asked me, whence I came? I told him I came from York , in a Sloop belonging to Boston in New-England , laden with Rum: Aye! said the Ferryman, I am very glad of that, for now we shall have Rum in the Country again.

I told him the Ship was called the Page, Capt. Johnson, (that being what first came in my Head) and on his asking me my Reason for leaving the Ship, I told him, the Commander starved me in the Passage, and that I had rather go to my Native Place than be used in such a Manner. The Ferryman's Wife and Sister happened to be sitting by the River-side, and thinking to move their Compassion towards me, I told them a doplorable Story, that I had left my Wife and 2 Children in England, and that I expected another when I came Home, having left my Wife big, although I never was married. I offered to give the Ferryman my Coat for my Passage; but his Wife and Sister believing what I had told them to be

true, desired him not to take it, and he then consented to carry me over.

When I came on Shore, I went on to a Place called Hog Island , 95 Miles from Eden-Town , from whence I went to one Colonel Shelly's, where I got Passage to Perquinam River , where I got Ferryage over by the means of one Macquire, a Scotchman, and from thence I came to Eden-Town , having gone an hundred Miles out of my Way.

When I came there, I met with one Captain Gale, who gave me Information of a Voyage I might have at a Place call'd Bath-Town , 50 Miles farther. He gave me a Letter of Directions to the Merchant, which I thought as good as a Pass, and travelled with a good Assurance, not being afraid of calling at any Gentleman's House as I went along.

I got Passage over Marlborough Sound , and went directly to the Merchant's House at Bath Town , and was very well entertained. The Sloop then lay laden with Tar, bound to Bristol , only wanting Hands; upon which I agreed to go on board her for 10 Guineas, but the Captain deprived me of half of it. We brought the Ship safe to Bristol , where I was discharged, and then came to London. I now lived in a very mean Way, being unwilling to go upon any irregular Courses, and coming into Company with one L - g C - es, he swore if ever he knew of my doing any Thing, he would never hurt me, but would screen me as much as lay in his Power.

After this, one Joe Davis and I coming along Bishopsgate-street , one Night, we went into a Sort of a Gin Shop, where I quarrelled with a Man, and knock'd him down. His Hat flying off, Davis ran away with it, and afterwards being in Company with Ben. Lane , he told him, he had been concerned with me in a Street-Robbery. However, Davis afterwards declared to me, that he had rather suffer any Thing than be an Evidence against me.

He came to me 2 or 3 Days afterwards without any Money, upon which I gave him a Supper, at the Red-Cross in Barbican , and he seduced me to go to the House of Ben. Lane , at the Shepherd and Flock , in Whitecross-street , where Long Charles and Dick Warner were drinking. They were not willing to apprehend me in the House, but let me stay 'till I had paid my Reckoning, when they followed me into Old street , and there laid hold of me, and told me, I must not go, because I had been concerned with Davis in divers Robberies, especiall Street-robberies, and I am sure I never committed one in my Life.

They did not accomplish their Designs, for I was cast for getting into the Shed of Thomas Law , in Whitechapple , who made it a Burglary, for he swore, that I broke his dwelling House; but as his Evidence is very particularly stated in the printed Account of my Trial, I shall not dwell any longer upon it, only must own myself guilty of that Crime, as well as many others for which I have deserved, and must suffer an ignominious Death.

Jesse Walden .

Newgate, April 3, 1742.

The following is an exact Copy of a Paper which the aforesaid Jesse Walden delivered to the Printer of this Account, with a Desire that it might be made public.

THESE are to certifie all whom it may concern, That, whereas one Henry G - le, near Gravesend, in the County of Kent, endeavoured to persuade me to Swear, and put into my Information, That one GEORGE WHARTON , Pilot , had been concerned with me in divers Robberies on the Highway, in Order to take his Life away. I do hereby solemnly declare, That I never saw the said GEORGE WHARTON but once in my Life, and that was, since I have been condemned, when he came to enquire of me, whether I was not persuaded to put him in my Information, through the Instigation of the abovesaid Henry G - le. This I thought my Duty, as a dying Man, to publish to the World, in order to clear the in

nocent Gentleman, and to expose that vile Man who would have had me swear an innocent Life away.

Witness my Hand,

Jesse Walden .

Newgate , My Cell, Ap. 3, 1742:

The above Declaration was acknowledged by the said Walden, in the Presence of,

Samuel Nichols , Turnkey of the Press-yard .

An Account of the Robberies committed by Alexander Afflack , who was convicted for stealing a Shew-glass with divers Goods of great Value of Andrew Stock .

I WAS born in Duke's-Court in the Parish of St. Martin in the Fields , of reputable Parents, who put me to School to one Mr. Tottidge's, where I staid about 11 Years, after which I was put Apprentice to one Mr. Lee a Peruke-maker in the same Court where I was born.

I served about 5 Years of my Time, and then went over to Guernsey with Capt. Strahan as his Valet de Chambre . I staid in his Service about two Years, and then came over to London , and unhappily got into ill Company.

The beginning of my entering into this Way was with one Will Deacon , who had one of his Eyes knocked out in attempting to pick a Gentleman's Pocket in St. Martin's-Lane .

One Evening Deacon and I were standing at Spring-Garden-Gate , near Charing-Cross , watching for our Prey, and a Gentleman came past in a Chaise, and his Servant on Horseback behind. He seeing me, and taking me to be a Porter, asked me if I could drive his Chaise? I told him I could, and according to his Directions I went with it into Hedge-Lane , to the Sign of the Black-Boy . It happen'd that the Gentleman had left a Great Coat and a Sword in the Chaise, and some how or other, when I got out to feed the Horses, Deacon took them away without my Knowledge. The Coachman asked me where they were, and notwithstanding all I could say in my own Defence, he would not be persuaded but I had conveyed them away, and therefore detained me that Night in St. James's Roundhouse . The next Morning I was carried before a Justice, who committed me to Tothilfields-Bridewell for farther Examination, and afterwards to Newgate , but obtained my Discharge on the following Account.

When Deacon had taken the Coat and Sword out of the Chaise, he hid them that Night in an empty House, designing to fetch them again next Morning, but happily for me some Bunters who made that House their Residence, were before Hand with him, for they found the Coat and Sword where Deacon had hid them, and gave me Information of it, upon which the Gentleman did not prefer any Bill against me, so that I was discharged of course.

Having thus fortunately escaped, I left off my former bad Courses very near 3 Years, during which Time I worked for Mr. Walker a Tinman , who used to light the King's Lamps, but not minding my Business as I ought to have done, my Master who had bore with me several Times, was now tired with my Neglect, and not without Reason turned me away.

I was now out of all Business, and had no Prospect of any Subsistence; I had now Leisure to reflect on my past Conduct and Mismanagement, and in this Distress I used to go to the Bedford-Arms Tavern in Covent-Garden , where I used to assist the Porter of the House for any Trifle I could get, being glad of any Thing that might remove the Prospect of Poverty, which presented itself before me in the most glaring Colours.

But I soon began again to satisfy the old Maxim, that Necessity is the Mother of Invention, for I got acquainted with a Heap of loose Fellows who haunted Covent-Garden , of Dispositions suitable to mine, and who were willing to run any Hazard to get a Living by their clandestine Practices, rather by an honest an laborious Employment.

In short, with them I agreed to go upon the Day Sneak; we used to watch our Opportuni

ties when People's Doors were open to slip in, and bring off any Thing we could meet with.

In this manner we went on for about 2 Years, till George Coates and one Jack Robinson , two of my Companions were transported for it.

After this I got acquainted with John Lowden , who is one of my Fellow Sufferers, and with him I used to break open Houses, and make Use of all Opportunities Night and Day to execute our Designs.

After which we used to go to the Gaming-Table in Vinegar-Yard , which is a Receptacle for Persons of the like Character and Profession as ourselves, and there generally came away Loosers, so that we were obliged to go to the old Trade again for a fresh Supply.

In * August Sessions last, I was tried on the Information of the above John Lowden , for several Felonies, and though I was so fortunate as to be acquitted, yet I must acknowledge, that I was guilty of all the Particulars as they were then sworn against me at my Trial.

As to what George Gumley swore in my Behalf at my Trial, I declare I never saw him before I came to Newgate , but a Woman happened to be there whom I knew, and who went for Gumley's Maid, she told me of him, upon which he swore he would save my Life, and that he could do it without hurting or forswearing himself, and Mrs. Davis another of my Witnesses, hearing him say that, told me that she was determined to back his Evidence, by affirming what he said to be true, and that she would likewise inform the Court that she went to Clerkenwell-Bridewell to see a Friend, and that she heard John Lowden say, he would hang me right or wrong, for the Sake of the Reward.

One Day I happened to go out with one Nose and Chin Ned, towards Chelsea , and as we went along we saw a Gentleman's Door open by the Back of Sir Robert Walpole 's House.

I thinking this a very proper House for my Purpose slipt in, and made bold to walk up Stairs into a Chamber, where I had not been long before the Footman, little thinking I was in the Room, came and lock'd me in.

I was then in the utmost Dilemma, nor knowing which Way to escape out of the Trap which I had so eagerly run into, upon which I hid myself in a Closer in the Room, very near 3 quarters of an Hour, and then got the Door open.

After which I ventured down Stairs a little Way to see if the Street Door was shut; there was a Lady drinking Tea at the same Time in the Parlour with the Door open, which made me think it best to go up Stairs again, and wait for a more favourable Opportunity of escaping.

I then examined the Chamber, and found 2 very fine Gold Rings in a little Drawer, which I tied up in my Apron, and then went up another Pair of Stairs with a Design of jumping out of the Window into the Garden, but being afraid of breaking my Neck, I last determined to take Courage and run out, and as I came down, the Stairs creaked all the Way, which terrified me a little, but however, when I got to the middle, I jumped quite down facing the Parlour Door, which surprizing the Lady, she dropt her Tea, and fell a screaming as if she had been murder'd, but notwithstanding that, I open'd the Street-Door and ran off.

After this Adventure, I used to go to Brumpton , Islington , and other bye Places, and knock at the People's Doors: if any body came, I would amuse them by asking them the Way to some Place or other, and if nobody opened the Door, I took it for granted that the People were all from Home, and then used to break open the House, and take any Thing out of it that came to hand.

Warner and Newman who were lately executed, used to go with me upon these Things, and once in particular we broke open a House by the Yorkshire Stingo at Paddington . We knew there was only an old Woman in the House, and it being Dinner-time, we expected her to go out for something into the Town, and accordingly we watched her out, and then opened the House and took out a Pair of Shoes, and Silver Buckles, some Cloaths and 4 s. in Money.

One Night Lowden and I coming along Covent-Garden , I told him there was a Chance, that is, a

* See Sessions Book for August 1741, No. 7.

Place to get something at, for there were some Silver Tankards in a Window, at the Sign of the Golden Horseshoe , in Covent Garden , I shoved up the Window, and gave it to Lowden, designing to have some more, but he being 'frighted, attempted to run off with it, and fell over some Benches. Some People being alarmed by the Ratling of the Tankard as it fell, came out upon us, and secured us. We were carried before Justice Poulson, but the Man of the House would not prosecute us.

In Hampstead Fair Time, we happened to go by Tom King 's Country House, and seeing the Table Cloth laid, I ordered Coates to go in, and get what he could. He accordingly went in and brought some French-Plate Tankard, which I at first took to be Silver, and 2 or 3 Silver Spoons, which we sold to a Butcher, and had a very handsome Supper with the Money, at the Nag's-head in James Street , Covent Garden.

After Supper, I and one Purvis went to Cards, and he losing all his Money, we gave him the Drop, but he went somewhere by himself towards Norfolk-Street, and brought away a Suit of Clothes, in one of the Pockets of which was a Purse and some Money, and other Things. He found out where I was drinking, and brought these Clothes to me, and desired me to lend him Money upon them, that he might go to Play, accordingly I did, and I put the Clothes under the Bench where I was sitting, thinking they would be safe there; but I was mistaken, for when Purvis had lost all his Money, and I went to look for the Clothes, they were gone.

Purvis being enraged at this, went before a Justice, with a View of being admitted an Evidence, and Coates and myself were taken up, but the Justice admitted Coates to be an Evidence, so that Purvis and I were tried; but we had the good Fortune to be acquitted of the Fact we were charged with, which was, breaking a House in Chandois-street .

Another Time we went with one Frank Flack , into a House in Jermin-Street , and took out a large Silver Box, in which were several Pieces of Money, but how much they amounted to, I can't recollect.

Lowden and I likewise, one Evening, went into Salisbury-Court , and took a Trunk out of a House there; but we were obliged to leave our dark Lanthorn burning in the House, and make off as fast as we could. We carried the Trunk into a Coach-yard near White-Fryars , and there left it, after having taken all that was valuable out of it.

We then went to Jervis Trueman 's, and I being apprehensive of losing my Money, put it into my Stocking, but they made shift to get it all from me; however, I had it all again, except a 3 l. 13 s- Piece.

After this, Lowden and I went to a Lawyer's House in Clifford's-Inn , and got two or three Gowns and some other trifling Things.

We likewise one Sunday Evening robb'd a Shop in Russel-Street Bloomsbury , of as much chequ'd Linnen, Stockings, and Handkerchiefs, as would load a Coach, which we carried to Rag-Fair , and sold for about 5 Pound.

We afterwards watched a Woman in the Strand , and saw her go out of her House with some Company, and then got in, and took down 4 or 5 Boxes of Lace, which were worth 70 or 80 l. and had we carried off the next Box, we should certainly have ruined the poor Woman, for according to her Account, she had put all the Money that she had in the World, in that very Box, which we providentially did not examine.

We were taken up for this Fact, but she would not prosecute us, for she said, her Loss was too great to be loaded with additional unnecessary Expences.

One Day I was walking at Hampstead , and happen'd to over-hear a Gentleman of a House there, tell another, that he would go to London that Night, but he had nobody in the House, therefore must not go 'till it was pretty late.

I thought I might then have an Opportunity of getting something, so I concealed myself in the Stable Yard till I saw him and his Man set out, and then I robbed the Stable of a fine Bridle, adorned with Silver Bosses, and some other Things, together with the Servants Great Coat, under which I concealed what I had taken.

I have for some Time before my Conviction committed these and many other Facts of the like Nature, and can only say, that the Punishment I am to suffer is what I have deserved, and that every one who follows the same Courses as I have done, must expect that they will sooner or later terminate in an untimely and ignominious Death.

A. Afflack.

April 5.

FINIS.

