The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Speech of the Malefactor that was Executed at TYBURN on Saturday the 21st day of APRIL, 1711.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday the 11th, and Thursday the 12th instant, Two Men and Two Women being found Guilty, received Sentence of Death, One of the Women excepted, who was then (upon account of her Pregnancy) respited by the Court, and afterwards Reprieved, with the other Woman, and One of the Men, by HER MAJESTY's gracious Mercy; which I wish they may (as it is their great Duty and Interest they should) carefully improve: And I hope, that not only they, but other Offenders, taking Warning by him, who is now order'd for Execution, will earnestly sue for God's Grace, that they may transgress no more; but live such a good Life in this World, as may prepare and dispose them for a better in the next.

While they were under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them brought up (twice every day) to the Chapel of Newgate, where I taught them publickly; and on the last Lord's Day preach'd to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Jam. 4. 8. being part of the Evening Second-Lesson for that Day, and the Words these: Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to You: Cleanse your Hands, ye Sinners; and Purify your Hearts, ye Double-minded.

In my Explanation of which Words, I shew'd, that they are a pathetick Exhortation to Repentance and a Holy Life, which (as an indispensable Duty) the Apostle presses upon Men, Wicked Men especially, whom he denotes here by this two-fold Appellation, viz. 1. Sinners. 2. Double-minded: Meaning by the former, all such Persons as are openly Profane, notoriously Vicious, whose Wickedness manifestly appears in their Lives and Conversations, and ordinary Practices; And by the latter, all Hypocrites, i. e. those that endeavour to dissemble with God and Man, who being inwardly full of Iniquity, would fain appear outwardly to be Good and Righteous Persons. And by both, all sorts of Wicked Men, whom he admonishes to repent, by these three metaphorical and most important Precepts, viz.

1. Draw nigh to God: Which is to be done, 1st, By a lively Fath. 2dly. By sincere Repentance. 3dly. By fervent Prayer.

2. Cleanse your Hands; i. e. Reform your Actions: Amend your Lives, &c.

3. Purify your Hearts: Which is as if he had said, Purge out the Filth of Sin, which pollutes and defiles your Souls: Strive (by the help of Grace) to be Sanctify'd, to overcome that old Corruption and vicious Habit that is in you, and effectually make clean all those inward foul and impure. Thoughts, and unholy carnal Affections, from which all outward evil Actions that are deliberate; do naturally proceed; as our Blessed Saviour tells us, Mat. 15. 19.

To each of these Particulars I spoke distinctly; and then inlarg'd my Discourse upon the great Subject of Repentance; shewing them,

I. What Sin is, and how insensibly it breaks in upon Men.

II. What Temporal and Eternal Miseries it involves them in.

III. What means Men may use to prevent their falling into any gross Sin.

IV. How (when committed) it may be repented of.

V. and lastly, What are the blessed Effects of true Repentance.

Having gone through these several Heads and Particulars, and herein endeavour'd to make my Auditory sensible of the Baseness, as well as dreadful Consequences, of a Sinful Life, and exhorted them to leave that Wicked and Dangerous Course; I did (at both times) conclude my Sermons with pressing Admonitions to the Condemn'd, That they would consider these Things, and how greatly it concern'd them to understand the true State of their Souls, viz.

1st. What that miserable State was they were in heretofore, when actually engag'd in the Devil's Service.

2dly, What their present State is, with respect to their inward Dispositions; Whether or no they hate and detest Sin, thro' a real Love and filial Fear of God.

3dly, What their future State will be, and what Hopes they have of being deliver'd from the Wrath to come.

These weighty Things I left with them to consider, and gave them such a Directions, as I thought most suitable both to their Capacities and sad Circumstances.

In my private Examination of them, they laid open to me their Sins and Fears. And he who is now to suffer, gave me the Account of himself, which I have here set down (in substance) as follows.

Edward Paine , Condemn'd for a Felony in stealing a quantity of Portuguese Coin and Silver, with some Gold-Lace, of about the value of 500 l. on the 2d day of March last. He said he was 33 years of age, born at a Place call'd Walsgrove, within two Miles of Coventry , in the County of Warwick : That while his Father liv'd (who was a Farmer) he follow'd the Trade of Husbandry with him; and after his Death, he went to Service ; Wherein, having (in some few years time) got a little Money, he set up for himself with it, and turned a Carrier : That he had not been long in that Business, but he met with great Crosses and Losses, which (together with his vicious Inclinations and habit of Sin) prompted him to things not only unlawful in themselves, but hurtful to honest Men: That being suspected of a certain Robbery (which he said could not have been prov'd upon him) he was committed to Warwick-Goal, out of which he broke. And then his great Necessities, and want of Grace, made him presently engage in those more daring Crimes, which the Devil tempted him to, and which have deservedly brought him to this his sad and shameful End. Thus he acknowledged himself to have been a very great Offender; but he did not make this Confession till he saw there was no more hope for his Life here: For before that, he seem'd to be very obstinate and harden'd in his wicked Way; saying, That the World should never be the wiser for any thing he should declare. In which obstinate disposition he continu'd a long time, notwithstanding what was said to him concerning the absolute Necessity of clearing his Conscience, by making those Discoveries he was able to make, which might prove useful to the World, and of some satisfaction (especially) to them that were wrong'd by him. All that I could then get from him, was, That he promis'd he would give such Informations to Persons concerned, as might (perhaps) be of use to them: But still (I perceiv'd) he would fain have been thought a better Man, or greater Penitent, than he really was; being very unwilling to be undeceived in this his great mistake, That though he was publickly Condemned, and publickly to suffer for his Crimes; yet his private, Confession to God alone was sufficient for his Repentance. The Mischief of which Error was represented to him, not only by myself, but another

ther Worthy Divine, that out of Charity to his Soul (as I may suppose) came to visit him; and yet for all that his obdurate and stubborn Heart (as it then outwardly appear'd) was not melted or moved in the least. But when Death began to make its nearer and more sensible approach to him, and (contrary to his Expectation) he found he was to dye indeed; then was he (or at least he seem'd to be) less sullen and reserved. He confess'd, That he had been highly guilty of Profaning the Lord's Day, of Swearing, of Excessive Drinking, of Whoredom, and all manner of Lewdness, and all Crimes, the Sin of Murther only excepted; and, That his loose Practices and wicked Course of Life, had brought him, by degrees, to the necessity of supporting his extravagant Expences, by those Injuries by him done to his Neighbour, those many Robberies he had committed in diverse Places, especially that at Basing-stoke in Hampshire, which was prov'd (he having part of the Goods found) upon him in this County; and for which therefore the Law does now justly require his Life here: All which himself could not but own; who was also perswaded at last to make some Discoveries relating to private Persons Concerns; which whether much useful, or not, Time will best prove. He being ask'd several Questions, some of them he did, and some he said, he could not, Resolve. He asked Pardon of God, and of all Men he had any ways offended, wishing it were in his power to make them full Amends and Restitution; But he said, he was poor, and therefore not able to do more than he had done herein.

At the Place of Execution, to which he was this day carried from Newgate , in a Cart, I attended him for the last time. I exhorted him fully to clear his Conscience, and more and more to lift up his Heart to God, in Prayer, Faith and Repentance. I pray'd by him, and sung some Penitential Psalms with him, and made him rehearse the Apostles Creed, in which Belief he declar'd he dy'd. Then I pray'd again for him; and having recommended him to God's Mercy, I withdrew. He desir'd the Spectators to pray for him, and take Warning by him; and he pray'd, That God would give them all Grace to avoid his Sins, and his Shame, &c.

After this he apply'd himself to God in his private Devotions; for which some little time having been allow'd him, then the Cart drew away, and he was turn'd off, while he utter'd these, and the like short Prayers: O Lord, forgive me the Sin for which I die, and all other the Sins of my Life, both known and unknown. O Blessed JESUS! wash away all my Sins in thy most precious Blood. Say unto my Soul, I am thy Salvation. Into Thy hand I commend my Spirit: For Thou hast redeem'd me, O Lord, Thou God of Truth. Lord JESUS! I come, I come; Recieve my Spirit. Amen.

This is all the Account here to be given of this Dying Malefactor, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Saturday, April 21. 1711.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , who formerly lived at the Bible in Creed-Lane , is removed to the Bible and Ball in Ave-Mary-Lane near Ludgate , where all Booksellers and others may be furnish with Bibles and Common-Prayers of all Sorts, with Cuts or without, Ruled or Unruled, Bound in Turky Leather or Plain. Mr. Strut's Cuts Curiously Engrav'd; also other fine Cuts fitted for all Sizes and Common-Prayers. The Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. The Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and French Common-Prayers. Tate and Brady's New Version of Psalms, with the New Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Statutes at large, in Three Volumes. Washington and Wingate's Abridgment of them. The Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, in Folio and Octavo. The New Translation of AEsops Fables. Also Bp. Beveridge's Works, in 5 vol. And Dean Stanhope on the Epistles and Gospels, in 4 vol. All which Books and Cuts are likewise sold by J. Baker in Mercers-Chapel

Lately publish'd for the Use of Schools,

Vocabularium Latiale; or, a Latin Vocabulary in two parts. The First being a Collection of the most usual and easie Latin words, whether primitive or derivative; with their signification in English, after the order of the Eight parts of Speech, giving a Specimen of each, and most naturally shewing the gender, increase, declension and motion of Nouns and Pronouns, with the Conjugation-Preterperfect Tense and Supine of Verbs both Simple and Compound. The Second, shewing the variation and declining of all the declinable parts, both regular an irregular. By Tho. Dyche , School-Master in London , Author of a new Spelling-book, entitul'd, A Guide to the English Tongue. Printed for S. Butler. at Bernard's-Inn-Gate, in Holbourn, J. Holland, near St. Paul's Church-yard, and A. Collins, at the Black-Boy in Fleet-street. Price 1 s.

BOOKS Printed for and Sold by Eben. Tracy , at the 3 Bibles on London-bridge .

The Seaman's Speculum, or, Compleat Schoolmaster: containing, the most ready and exact Manner of Rigging of a Ship, after a more Easy way than has been hither to practiced, suited to the Capacity of every Seaman, tho' he knows nothing of Numbers. Shewing, the exact way of Rigging the Royal Navy of Great Britain, and Merchant Ships. By John Davis .

The Present State of Great Britain, under the Auspicious Government of Her most Sacred Majesty Queen ANNE. containing, 1. A general Description of England, Scotland, and Wales, through their several Cities, Counties, Districts, Principalities, &c. 2. Of the Present Genius, Language, Trade, Law, and Religion of the Britains. 3. Of the several Ranks and Orders of Men; the Nobility, Gentry, Clergy, and Commonalty. 4. Of the Present Mornachy, its Greatness and Power; the Sovereign's Prerogative, Dignity, Title, and Arms; Her Court, Forces, and Revenues of the present Princes and Princesses of the English Blood Royal, and the Succession to the Crown, as setled by Act of Parliament. 5. Of the High-Court of Parliament, Privy-Council, and all Courts of Judicature. With the Newest and most Perfect List of Her Majesty's Officers in Church and State, and of the present Parliament and Convocation.

The Marrow of the Mathematicks, made plain and Easie to the understanding of any ordinary Capacity. Containing the Doctrines of Arithmetick, Geometry, Astronomy, Gauging, the use of the Sector, Surveying, Dyaling, and the Art of Navigation, &c. Illustrated with several Cuts for the better Explanation of the whole Matter. After a New, Compendious, Easy Method, by W. Pickering, Merchant-Adventurer.

The Call of the SON of GOD: or, a Door of Salvation Open'd to Sinners. Plainly shewing every Poor Sinner the Miserableness of his Estate, and how great great an Enemy he is to himself: With many sweet Invitations to come to CHRIST, that they may have Eternal Life, and be hid from the Wrath of GOD, which is worse than Death.

Tachygraphy. The most Exact and Compendious Method of Short and Swift Writing that hath ever been published by any. Composed by Thomas Shelton , Author and Professor of the said Art. Approved by both the Universities.

The Spiritual Pilgrim: or the Christians Journey to New Jerusalem. In three Parts. The First shewing his Journey and Adventures in his Way from the City of Sin to the Town of Mortality. The Second giving Account of his ourney from the Town of Mortality to the City of Repentance. The Third treating of his Journey and Adventures in his Way, into which he came at the City of Repentance, till his safe Arrival at New Jerusalem. The whole being a lively Prospect of the several Passages of a Christians Life, from his first Conviction to his thorow Conversion, and thenceforth till his Death and happy Reception into Heaven. By Henry Wilson .

A Collection of six New Delightful Novels. 1. The unlucky Fair One: or the Amours of Milistrate and Prazimene, illustrated with variety of Chances of Fortune. In two Novels. 2. Three ingenious Spanish Novels, viz. 1. The Loving Revenge: or Wit in a Woman. 2. The Lucky Escape: or the Jilt Detected. 3. The Witty Extravagant: or the Fortunate Lovers. 3. Cynthia: or the Tragical Account of the Unfortunate Loves of Almerine and Desdemona.

Heaven upon Earth; or the best Friend in the worst of Times: Being a Legacy to London. By James Janeway . The Second Edition, Corrected.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-Hall.

