THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were Executed at Tyburn, on Monday the 11th of this Instant November 1728.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir Edward Becher , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Rt. Honourable Sir Robert Raymond , Lord Chief Justice of the King's Bench ; the Honourable Mr. Justice Denton, the Hon. Mr. Baron Hales, the Honourable Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London, and John Raby , Esq ; Serjeant at Law ; and other his Majesty's Justices of Jail-Delivery, and Oyer and Terminer aforesaid, together with several of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the said City of London and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday, the 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, and 21st of October last, in the 2d Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Fifteen Men, viz. Thomas White , Samuel Lewis , Thomas Evans , Nathaniel Walker , William Taylor , Charles Mackullister , John Hyrons , Anthony Meagre , Peter Levee , John Featherby , Thomas Vaux , Stephen Barnham , John Bleak Cowland , John Taylor , and John Oney , and one Woman, viz. Elizabeth Powel , were capitally Convicted by the Jury, and receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly.

While under Sentence, they were first instructed in the Articles of our Christian Faith, necessary to be known, that God having made Man upright, after his own Image, and he having fallen from the Obedience due to his Maker, and by Consequence render'd himself uncapable of the Rewards entail'd upon Obedience; yet then God pity'd us in our low Estate, and gave his only beloved Son for us, that whosoever believed in him, might not perish but obtain eternal Life: And that we must not only believe in Jesus Christ the Son of God our only Saviour, but this Faith must be attended with a true Repentance for all our Sins, an Amendment of our Lives and Holiness, in all Manner of Life and Conversation; for without Holiness no Man can see the Lord, Heb. 12. 14. Some of these Malefactors having been notoriously wicked and obstinate Sinners, wholly destitute of Virtue, and immers'd in Vice; I let them in a a few Words see the Difference between Virtue and Vice. That Vice was an aberration and departing from the Rule of right Reason, which God had naturally implanted in the Minds of Men; and that it was also a Breach of divine Law, according to which we ought to regulate our Actions; and that consequently, Vice and vicious Men must be an Abomination to God, and all good Men, in whom any rays of the Divine Image take Place: On the contrary, I show'd them, that Virtue was expressive of, and agreeable to that heavenly Pattern after which Man was made; that it was attended with a serenity of Mind, and that beside the promise of future Rewards, it was always accompanied with a Reward in its own Bosom, a good Conscience, which never fails to comfort a Man under the most violent Disasters. Some of them having shown too much disregard to the hearing of God's Word; I show'd them, with what Regard, Submission, Humility, Dread and Awe of the divine Majesty, we ought to hear God's holy Word from St. Luke 8, 18. Take heed therefore, how ye hear. I also instructed them in the nature of the Christian Sacraments, particularly, that of the Lord's Supper, which was proper to dispose them for Heaven, and that eternal Communion which the Saints enjoy with God in Glory.

While these, and many other Instructions were given, all of them behav'd with much Reverence and Attention, excepting Featherby, Barnham, and Vaux, who were so wild and extravagant, that they could not be reduc'd to Order, till they were corporally punished for their Miscarriages in and out of Chappel. Peter Levee was the best of these 4 notorious Street-Robbers, appearing more sensible of his Misfortunes than the other Three, and behav'd himself with more Decency, and always appearing to be very Serious and Devout; only they told me, that sometimes he Smil'd to his Companions who indeed tempted and disturb'd him, and all the rest of those unhappy Creatures. Hirons and Mackullister, were very Sick for several Days; when I visited them in the Cells, they always declar'd themselves very Penitent, and thankful for such Christian Visits. John Taylor , before, and after Sentence, was very Sick, most, if not the whole Time he lay under Conviction. When I visited him, he appear'd to be a sensible young Man, very sorry for his mispent Life, Penitent for his Offences, and said he was fully resolv'd against falling into any such miscarriages for the future, and on the contrary, to lead a new Life, if he was spar'd.

Upon Wednesday the 6th of November, the Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the above mention'd sixteen Malefactors then lying under Sentence of Death. When John Taylor , for stealing a bay Gelding, val. 4 l. on the 27th of September last, the Property of Mr. Willington: Samuel Lewis , of St. Mary White-chapel , for feloniously stealing 700 weight of Lead, val. 4 l. 11 s. o the 27th, of September, the Property o Thomas Scales , and in the dwelling House o the said Thomas Scales , and John Bleak Coland , receiv'd his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve. The remaining thirteen viz. Thomas White , Thomas Evans , Nathaniel Walker , William Taylor , Charles Mackullist , John Hyrons , Anthony Meagre , Peter Levee , John Featherby , Thomas Vaux , Stephen Barham , Elizabeth Powel , and John Oney , were order'd for Execution. When the notorior Street-Robbers who had before behav themselves after a very impudent manner on several Occasions, they seeing nothing but Death so very near approaching them that Featherby and Levee express'd a deal Penitence, but Barnham and Vaux appear with too much indifference, and not wi that Seriousness which was requisite upon such an unhappy Occasion; all the rest were very Serious, and most of them seem'd be much more affected than they was some time before.

Peter Levee , Thomas Vaux , Stephen Burnet alias Barnet , alias Barnham , and John Featherby , were Indicted for assaulting Mr. John Clark , on the Highway, putting him in Fe and taking from him a silver Watch, va 4 l. a Diamond Ring, 3 l. 11 s. in Silve, and 14 Guineas in Gold, on the 18th, of August last, in the Parish of St. Brides , in t Ward of Farringdon without .

Mr. Clark depos'd, that going in a Coac from Cornhil , to the Inner Temple , he sa three or four Persons dogging the Coach near the Great Toy-shop in St. Paul's Church Yard ; that he scarce lost sight of the when at the end of Water-Lane , Barnha and Vaux stop'd the Coach; at which looking out saw them very plainly: Lev took all the Goods mention'd, and for th greater Expedition, he furiously tore dow his Breeches with the Pocket, and Feather, all the while held a Pistol to his Breast. S. William Billers depos'd, that Levee voluntarily, without Threats, or Promises confess this Robbery; and that Featherby, Vaux a Barnham assisted him in the Commission this, and many other Robberies which mention'd; which Confession by him, a Barnham was read in Court.

Thomas Wood depos'd, that he went to ta Featherby, and one Kable, in Blew-Boa Head-Alley , Barbican , and each of th snapp'd a Pistol at him, but neither of th would go off. Mary Vaux (excusing her,

as to Witnessing any thing concerning her Husband, against whom, she could not by Law be oblig'd to give any Evidence) Swore that she saw Barnham stop the Coach, overagainst Water-Lane , when Levee got into the Coach, and riffled the Prosecutor. The Fact being plain, the Jury found all the four Guilty of Death.

1. Peter Levee , as he said, was 24 Years of Age, of honest creditable Parents in London ; had good Education which he no ways Improv'd, His Father dying left him young, and when of Age, his Friends put him to a Silk Weaver ; but he was of too unsettl'd an Humour to confine himself to an honest Employment, and soon grew weary of his Business, he betook himself to Thieving and Robbery above eight Years ago, at least, as he own'd, and never thought of any other Course of Life, but that of a profest Thief and Robber. He was detain'd Prisoner in Newgate four Years, upon a Fine for some villainous Attempt; and when he got out, he follow'd his old Trade. He confess'd, that he had been one of the greatest of Sinners ever was, in Swearing and Blaspheming, Drinking, Whoring, Gaming, and all kind of Vices. He appear'd to 've been a Fellow of a good natural Understanding, but of a distorted, wry Countenance, and a Visage portending nothing but the devilish Disposition of which he was. He acknowledg'd the Fact for which he was Convicted, and the Justice of his Sentence; that he had been a most expert Thief, in all the different Species's thereof; such as Shop-lifting, House-breaking, frequently acting the Foot Pad near the City, going out upon the Sneak, Pick-Pocketing, and Robbing in the Streets, &c. He said, that he had often knock'd down Men, both in Town and Country, but that he never intended, nor committed Murder, neither did he ever do much harm to any Man's Person, to his Knowledge. He and his Associates denied that they knew any thing of the Robbery committed upon a Gentleman in a Coach between Kentish Town and Highgate, on the 24th, of September last, when a great many Papers of value were taken from the said Gentleman. They all said, that they never rob'd any body of Papers, but restor'd them as useless to themselves.

When the other three behaved very disorderly in Chapel, Levee kept an outward Decorum, only sometime he Smil'd, and spoke to some of the rest. He was chain'd down for two or three days in the Old Condemn'd Hold with the rest of his three Companions, for their rude Behaviour in the Cells. After the Dead Warrant came down to Newgate , his Conscience seem'd to be mightily a wakened, and he declar'd, seemingly with a sincere Sorrow, and Penitence, for his Offences, (which he said were many.) He knew little of God, or Christian Principles, having been altogether immers'd in Sensuality and oluptuousness. I endeavour'd what I could instruct and comfort him: He declar'd himself a true Penitent, that he believ'd in rist his only Saviour, and died in Peace th all mankind.

2. John Featherby , as he inform'd me, was 24 Years of Age, descended of honest Parents in London , his Father left him young, and his Mother gave him good Education, in the Principles of Christianity, and in Reading, Writing, Arithmetick, and other things fit to Accomplish him for Business. When of Age, he was put out to a Coach-Painter in the Old-Bailey ; but being of an inconstant, wicked Temper, would not confine himself to any constant Employment; and leaving his Master, he grew altogether abandoned, and irreclaimable in habitual Wickedness, so that he refus'd to stay with his Mother, who offer'd to maintain him at Home, since he would by no means apply himself to any kind of Business, if he would but abstain from wandering Abroad, and following a licencious and wicked Life. He confest the Robbery of which they were Convicted, and that for two Years past and more, he had committed a considerable Number of Robberies of all Kinds. He was try'd with the rest of the Street-Robbers, who were Executed in May last, but Proof not being sufficient against him, he was Acquitted. He own'd that he had been one of the most profligate Fellows ever liv'd, addicted to all manner of Vices. He said, that he was lawfully married to a Woman, who some time ago was Transported. For two or three Days, when they were first under Sentence, he behav'd himself Decently; but after that, growing uneasy at his Restraint, and partly tempted by Barnham and Vaux, when he met with them at Chapel, or otherways; he turn'd one of the most obstinate Fellows that ever was under Sentence of Death.

On Friday the 25th, of October, in the Evening, being lock'd up in the Cells, he look'd up at the Window of his own Cell, Blasphem'd at a prodigious Rate, Curs'd all the most eminent Persons in highest Authority; and having Drunk too liberally of that Liquor call'd Geneva, which some Persons privately gave him; he behav'd himself very Disorderly in the Cell all that Night. Next Morning when he came to Chapel, he would not be quiet, but disturb'd the Worship, by throwing Sticks at a Gentleman, by conversing with some of his Companions, and doing of many ludicrous Tricks; and a grave Man in the Chappel giving account, that it was he who bred the Disturbance, he beat him unmercifully, Storm'd and Curs'd him, so that as I was to Read a godly Discourse to them, I was oblig'd to Conclude. When the Keepers knew of this, they stapl'd him down in the Old Condemn'd Hold all that Night. On Wednesday the 30th of October, and Thursday Forenoon he staid from Chappel, upon a very bad Design, as I was afterwards informed. That Day a civil Gentleman, who is by Profession a Brewer, going to see them in the Cells, Vaux was so rude and impudent, as to throw a whole Pot of Beer upon him. That Afternoon they were Drunk and uneasie in Chappel. They were the most unthinking, foolish Creatures I ever saw. For their audacious Behaviour, Featherby, Barnham, Levee, and Vaux, were nail'd down in the Old Condemn'd Hold, all Sunday, Monday, and Tuesday Forenoon, 3d, 4th, and 5th, of November. I went two or three times to them, exhorted and Pray'd to them, when they promis'd me all Obedience, heartily comply'd with Prayer; declar'd themselves Penitent for their Misbehaviour, and other Crimes which they had committed; upon which, they were all four brought back to the Cells, and up to Chappel, where they behav'd with outward Decency. He was a bold desperate Fellow; but after the Dead Warrant was out, he behav'd very civilly, and with a deal of apparent Seriousness and Devotion. I reprov'd him sharply for all his Misdemeanors, for his Sinning against so much Light and Knowledge, and for giving so much Scandal, and Offence to Others, under the same Condemnation. He acknowledg'd his great Wickedness, begg'd Pardon of God and Man, for all the Sins of his Life; and express'd a Confidence he had of being sav'd by the Mercy of God, thro' the Merits of Christ, declar'd himself Penitent, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

3. Stephen Burnet , alias Barnet , alias Barnham , which last was his true Name; he said he was near nineteen years of Age, of creditable Parents, who gave him good Education at School, which he did not Mind; bur in his Childhood apply'd himself to Thieving; for being acquainted with the famous Robber Blueskins, who cut Jonathan Wild 's Throat, when Jonathan visited him at the Old-Bailey , as he was going to be Try'd; and was Executed about four years ago. Barnham waited on Blueskins in his Rounds, and attended the famous Jonathan Wild 's Levy, when he should have gone to School. He own'd, that he had been abandon'd of God, and addicted to all manner of Wickedness, from his Infancy and Childhood; that when he was not Tall enough to reach up to a Man's Pocket, he stood upon a stool and pickt some Men's Pockets; and that at other times Blueskins with some of his Companions, would have taken him upon the Sneak to Shops, and that he crept in behind their backs to the lower part of the Shops, and stole Goods to the value of 5, 6 or 10 l. Blueskins and the rest going off upon the buying of a Pair of Stockings to the value of 7 s. for such Services Blueskins made much of this young Proficient, giving him Fruit, or a Shilling or two, and then he thought himself well-pay'd. He was taken up with Blueskins and tried in the Country, where he was acquitted. He said, that he was bound Apprentice to seven Trades, and that also he went to Sea sometimes, but that he was of so perverse and wicked a Disposition that he would stay at nothing, as loving idleness and unwilling to Work. As he grew in Years, so he advanc'd in all manner of Vice, till he became one of the most audicious, impudent and unthinking Thieves that ever was. He took Pleasure in recounting his Adventures, and said, if it were not for the great Sin, that there was as much Pleasure in robbing People; considering the accidents and comical

Reencounters which frequently fall out, as in any Game or Diversion whatever. Two or 3 Weeks before they were taken, about Eleven at Night, they stop'd a Coach at the three Tun-Tavern in Newgate-street , but the Coach-man lash'd Barnham upon the Face with his Whip, and almost put out his Eye, then all the four shot their Pistols, but the Coachman lash'd so furiously about him, and the Horses jump'd and leap'd so prodigiously, that they were forc'd to let the Coach go, and take themselves to their Heels. They turn'd into St. Paul's-Church-Yard in the East-end of which near Cheapside , they stop'd another Coach, and robb'd a Gentleman of his Watch and a good many Guineas; then they went through Black-Friars to the Waterside, where they gave a Waterman 3 d. to carry them over, and they were not well Landed on the other Side, when they met a Gentleman whom they robb'd of 10 l. Then they went to a Tavern, where they us'd to meet their Companions, and there they divided the Spoil and drunk liberally with some lewd Women, who attended them. As an Instance of their prodigality, he said, that in one Week, he and two others spent above 120 l. and they set up a poor Man in a Chandlers-shop, who afterwards was kind to them, when they were in Prison. Barnham own'd the Robbery of which they were convicted, and said that after that Night, having lost his Companions at the End of Shoe-Lane where he waited for them, he never saw them again, till they met in Newgate . For five Years past he was not out of Prison above four Months. Barnham, Featherby and Levee were the three Persons, who robb'd Mr. Brown in Deans Court , St. Paul's Church-Yard of his Gold-watch, and Thirteen Guineas. Mr. Brown advertis'd Five Gnineas reward to any Person who would restore his Watch: Barnham writ him a Letter, that he would return the Watch upon payment of Five Guineas, if he came to a Field next to Sadler's-Wells half an Hour past Six: Accordingly Mr. Brown went and found a Man in the middle of the Field precisely at the Hour appointed, who was Barnham, who had a lac'd Hat on: He restor'd the Watch upon delivery of the Five Guineas. Then Barnham held out a cock'd Pistol, and said, I could rob you again, but will not break my Word of Honour, Featherby and Levee stood Guard at a little distance and heard all; Levee also walk'd by in the Time they were speaking together. All the three declar'd, that they were fully resolv'd to murder Mr. Brown, if he had brought any Company along with him, contrary to their Advice, or if he had made the least Opposition or Noise. He spent two or three Shillings every Day for two or three Weeks before they were taken on Coach-hire, in Search after the other three, but could not find any of them till they were all taken and committed to Newgate. He was very turbulent in Chappel, till they were all punish'd for their obstanacy, then he abstain'd from Laughing and making any Noise, and made regular Responses, but did not appear sensible of the miserable Circumstances he was in. He said, that he was never married but kept Company with a Woman. He declar'd, that he repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

N. B. About two days before he was Executed, he sent for the Printer of the Dying-Speeches, and requested him to insert in this Paper a SONG he was then making, in Commmoeration, and Commendation of himself, Levee, Featherby, and Vaux; which having finish'd, he sent it accordingly to Mr. APPLEBEE, in expectation of its being inserted herein according to his Request; but upon perusing the same, it appear'd to be compos'd in Vindication of his own, and his Companions wicked Exploits, and villainous Actions, and an earnest Exhortation to their Confederates (who are at Liberty) to persue their illegal Proceedings, and glorying in the Perpetration of their abominable Actions, for which Reason it was Refused to be Inserted. This Barnham in all his Exploits, appears to have been a most Impenitent, and audacious Criminal. He was sometime since try'd at Kingston Assizes, but then acquitted for want of sufficient Evidence; upon which, he immediately return'd to his Old Trade, and committed several Robberies on the other side of the Water; and about three Months since, being in Little-Britain , (where he was Born) he shewed publickly to several Persons openly in the Streets, a silver Spoon, and about 15s. in siver and declar'd, that to be the produce of the Days Work; after which, he climb'd up one of the Lamp-Posts, and putting his Head thro' the Iron-Ring in which the Lamps are usually plac'd, he loudly Swore before four Months were expir'd, he would perpetrate some Action; that he might be Hang'd in that Place, in which as to Time, he has been as good as his Word, tho' by the Lenity of our Laws, he suffer'd at the usual Place with the other Malefactors.

4. Thomas Vaux , 23 or 24 Years of age, of mean Parents, had no Education, and was a Chimney-sweeper by Trade. He was a most senseless, obstinate, debauch'd and prophane Fellow. He had been a Thief for many Years past, and engag'd in the Gang with the other three of late for Street-robberies. He also was expert in all the different kinds of Theft and Robbery. When they were nail'd down in the old Condemned-Hold, he said, that they design'd to commit Murder before they died, that they might be hung in Chains, he said, he would kill Abraham (who was formerly Jonathan Wild 's man) who look'd after them in the Cells; but when I reprov'd him for this, he said, it was only in Jest, for he had no Reason for it, he behaving himself very Civil to us: He was turbulent in Chappel, and would not abstain from Laughing and ridiculous Gestures, till he was nail'd down with the rest of his Gang for three Days; then he turn'd a little more Civil, and pretended to something of Penitence, declaring that he believ'd in Christ, that he was griev'd for his wicked and scandalous Life, for which he beg'd pardon of God and Man, and died in Peace with all the World.

I remonstrate to them all, what egregious Folly it was to neglect the great Work of their Salvation, since their Time was so short, and it was the great God and not Man they had to deal with; and that the Redemption of the Soul is precious and ceaseth forever, And what can a Man give in Exchange for his Soul. Peter Levee behav'd the best of the Four, Featherby especially and Levee also appear'd to have strong Convictions, the other two were less sensible, and seem'd to be more harden'd. All of them gave fair Promises of Amendment, during the short time allow'd 'em.

5. Thomas White , 25 Years of age, of mean Parents, who put him to School where he was Taught the Principles of Christianity, to Read and Writ. He was a Brickmaker , and (as he said) wrought as hard for his Bread, and his Wife's as any Man. Lagden swore, that he took the Half-crown from him against his Will. Samuel Boyce depos'd, that he saw the Prisoner and the Prosecutor struggling together, and that upon his desire, he restor'd the Half-crown to Lagden. Mr. Wright depos'd, that hearing an Outcry of a Street-Robber, he took him. Yet White went to Death denying all, and affirming, that it was only a private Quarrel between him and Lagden in the Street, and that the Prosecution was carried on against him, at the instigation of a certain Person, that he did not take the Half-crown, but that it was given him, and that he restor'd it, although it was for it they were Fighting: He added, that the Prosecutor was a miserably poor Man, and that when he was taken, he wanted not Money, but had two Guineas in his Pocket. He said, that he never was a Thief nor Robber, that he never wrong'd any one of a Farthing, but was always an industrious Man. He ackowleg'd, that he had been a great Swearer, and a Drinker, and that he was not free of Whoring. He always behav'd with great Decency, and at Prayers made regular Responses. He died in the Faith of being Sav'd thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ only, declar'd himself truly Penitent for all the Sins of his Life, and in Peace with all Mankind.

6. Anthony Meagre , 23 Years of age, his Parents put him to School, but being poor; He was of no Trade, but serv'd Gentlemen , as he said, with a very good Character. He married a Wife and kept a Publick-house , where he had an Opportunity of getting acquainted with bad Company, particularly James How the notorious Robber and House-breaker, who was executed the 11th of September last, who came often to his House, and by his wicked Counsel engag'd him to undertake villanious Practices.

He agreed with a Gang to go out upon Street-Robberies, but making his first Adventures in Moorfields ; about an Hour after he had Assaulted Beal, as he walking along Moorfields , being very Drunk, two or three Men in Company with one of them he ha Rob'd took him up, and brought him to condign Punishment; he seem'd to have

been a Fellow of an easie Temper, and of no bad Disposition naturally, if he had not been Corrupted. At first he dissembl'd and partly deny'd the Fact of which he was Convicted; but after the Dead Warrant came out, he own'd that it was all true, as the Prosecutors depos'd against him. He was very Penitent and behav'd with Gravity and apparent Seriousness; he own'd the Justice of his Sentence according to Law, and declar'd, that he hop'd for Salvation thro' the Merits of Christ, that he repented sincerely of all his Sins, and forgave all the World.

7. Charles Mackullister , 29 Years of Age, born in Ireland , his Father being a Soldier gave him no Education at School, and when he was of Age, he Listed himself for a Soldier , and when he had time, he serv'd as a Labourer to Brick-layers . He said, that he never was a Thief, but always liv'd honestly, and wrong'd no Body. As to the Robbery for which he died, he said, he knew nothing of it at the Time or before it was done; but that he was in Company with one Street, who was concerned in the Robbery, who told him of it, and that they sold some of the Goods, and then went to an Ale-House and spent all the Money, which was all he knew of the Matter; but that the Person who committed the Robbery made his Escape out of New Prison. He was always (to Appearance) very penitent, and understood as much and more of religious Principles, than many of his Education and manner of Life use to do. He express'd a strong Confidence of being saved by the Mercy of God, thro' Christ; declar'd that he was penitent, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

8. John Hyrons , 23 Years of Age, of mean Parents, had no Education, was a Labourer to Bricklayers , and a Soldier . He went to Death saying, that he knew nothing of the Robbery directly nor indirectly, excepting that he knew something of a Pair of Buttons, or some small Things, being sold at a Chandler's Shop; and these Things happen'd to be the Prosecutor's, but was first taken up as he was going out to his Work soon in the Morning. Both those Soldiers denied that they were at any time Thieves or Robbers; but own'd, that otherwise they were great Sinners in Swearing, Drinking, Whoring, idle Company keeping, profaning the Lord's-Day, and seldom going to Church, for which they begg'd Pardon of God and Man. Hyrons declar'd himself penitent for his many and great Sins, that he believed to be sav'd through the Merits of Jesus Christ, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

9 10. 11. Thomas Evans , Nathaniel Walker , and William Taylor , of Hornsey , were indicted for assaulting John Maud , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Gold Ring, val. 5 s. and a Silk Handkerchief, val. 1 s. on the 30th of August last.

They were a second Time indicted, for assaulting Charles Acton on the Highway, at the same Time and Place, (being near a Place call'd the Devil's-gate in Hornsey-Lane ) and taking from him a pair of Brass Buckles, Val. 6 d, and 2 d. 1/2 in Money.

Thomas Evans , about 18 or 19 Years of Age, Nathaniel Walker , as he said, not fully 16 Years old, and William Taylor , about 20 or 21 Years of Age, were all Carmen and Sons of Carmen about the Town. Thomas Evans , could read and write, Nathaniel Walker could do neither, William Taylor could read. Evans behav'd always with abundance of Modesty and Seriousness, and made regular Responses in Chapel, as did Taylor, and all the Three were very Penitent, and carried themselves very well both in and out of Chapel. They were Novices in Wickedness, as they said, none of them having been wicked Livers before this desperate Adventure, but that they diligently followed their Business with a good Character of Honestly, and went to Church sometimes, when their Masters allow'd them. At first, they denied that they went out on Purpose to rob on the Highway, but when they saw there was no Expectation of Life, they own'd that they agreed to go out upon Purchase; and the Occasion of their so doing, was, they had eat and drank all their Money at Bartholomew-Fair , to the Value of Half a Crown a-piece, and the Money being their Masters, they were afraid they should not be made Welcome at Home, upon which they went to see if they could make it up, with some Advantage, on the Highway; where meeting with the young Gentlemen between Hornsey and Highgate ; Walker took the Things, mentioned in the Indictment, from them, while the other Two were looking on and assisting him. Walker lamented much for his aged Mother, whom (as he said) he maintained. I represented to them the Heinousness of their Crime; what a dangerous Thing it is to forsake God, and how the Justice of God immediately overtook them, upon their Commission of that capital Crime, of which they were not Ignorant. They all said, that they had never done any great Wickedness before, own'd the Justice of their Sentence, declared their Belief in Jesus Christ our only Saviour, appear'd to be very Penitent for their many Sins, forgave all Men the Injuries done them, as they expected Forgiveness from Almighty God.

12. John Oney , alias Honey , was indicted for returning from Transportation, before the Expiration of his Time.

John Oney , as he said, 74 Years of Age, when young was taught to read, and was a Pipe-maker by Trade, which Business he followed, and liv'd in an honest way, till Poverty and old Age coming on he was not able to work. He was a Soldier in the Regiment of Fusileers, as he said, all King William's Wars, and was wounded in several Places at the Siege of Namure , which occasion'd almost the Loss of his Sight. He kept a Woman to whom he was not married, and because of her naughty Carriage put her away, and married a Wife, now living, of 84 Years of Age. He said, that he was never an ill Liver in any other Respect, but liv'd regularly and frequented the Church. He frequently wept over his Misfortunes very passionately. He said, that it was a Yorkshire Man who advis'd him to steal the 4 Weathers, for which he was transported, that he was only Partner with him, who keeps a Horse and goes commonly out and lives by robbing the Country. He never committed any other atrocious Crime, and was very Penitent for his many Sins. When I visited him in the Cell, he desired me to pray for him, which I did, and he was very thankful. He declar'd that he rely'd on the Mercy of God in Christ, that he truly repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

13. Elizabeth Powell of St. Sepulchre's , was indicted for breaking the House of Anne Norton , on the 18th of September last, in the Day-time, no Person being in the House, and taking thence a Wainscot Box, in which was one Guinea and two Crowns, besides some wearing Apparel, the Property of Anne Norton .

Elizabeth Powell , 25 Years of Age, born in Herefordshire , of mean Parents, who gave her little Education, because of her bad state of Health when she was young. She came to London some Years ago, and serv'd in several good Houses , as she said, with Reputation; but being at length suspected for a Robbery, she was thrown into Goal, but no Body appearing against her, she was acquitted and turn'd out of Newgate , and the very Night after she got out of Prison, she committed the Robbery for which she died, having been sent back to Newgate about two Days after she came out of it. She acknowledg'd the Fact for which she died, and said that she never committed any other Theft or Robbery. She was ignorant of Christian Principles, I instructed her as far as the shortness of Time, and her slowness of Capacity could allow. She declared her Belief in Jesus Christ our Saviour, that she repented of all her Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

This Paper, written by Fetherby's own Hand, was deliver'd to me in Chapel, immediately before they went to Execution.

AS it is my sad Misfortune to come to this untimely End, I think it my Duty to acknowledge the Justice of Almighty God, and that of my Country; and I humbly implore Pardon of the Divine Goodness, and Forgiveness of all that I have injured, or any ways offended. It is a sad Reflection upon my Spirit that I have had the Blessing and Advantage of honest and pious Parents, who's tender Care provided for my Education; so that I might have lived to God's Glory, their Comfort, and my own lasting Felicity; but I take Shame to my self, and humbly acknowledge, that by the evil Ways I of late followed, I neglected my Duty to my great Creator, and brought Grief to my dear and tender Mother; and having thus far, and much more, offended against God and Man, I hope, and earnestly desire, that no prudent or charitable Person will reflect upon my good Mother, or any other Friend and Relations, for my shameful End. John Fetherby .

At the Place of Execution,

THEY all behav'd with much Seriousness; Ferrebee said that the House where he was taken, was an honest House, knew nothing of his wicked Ways, that they were his Relations, and the Neighbourhood was injurious in entertaining any ill Opinion of them upon his Account. Barnham desired me to publish, that his Brother had been no ways instrumental to his Misfortunes, but that he always endeavour'd to reclaim, altho' his perverse disposition was such, that all Advices were ineffectual. Walker said, that he forgave his Prosecutors, and died in Peace with all Men, and in hopes of a blessed Immortality. White said he did not take Half a Crown from Langden, but that it was a private Quarrel between them in the Street. Mackullister and Hyrons adher'd to their former Confessions. Levee desired a Psalm to be sung last of all. The Lamentation of a Sinner, and Gloria Patria being sung, they all went of the Stage crying out, God have Mercy on us, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

This is all the Account given by me,

James Guthrie , Ordinary of Newgate

London: Printed by J. APPLEBEE, in Black-Fryers.

