THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On FRIDAY the 31st of July, 1741.

BEING THE THIRD EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon . DANIEL LAMBERT , Esq ;

Number III.

LONDON :

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLI.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Rt . Honourable DANIEL LAMBERT , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Hon. Lord Chief Baron PROBYN, the Hon. Mr. Justice FORTESCUE, the Hon. Mr. Baron WRIGHT, the Hon. Sir JOHN STRANGE , Knt . Recorder , and the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery, for the City of London and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 1st, 2d, 3d, and 4th of July, and in the Fifteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Four Men, viz. Thomas Steers , James Rayner , Richard Eades , and John Scot , were by the Jury found guilty of capital Offences, and received Sentence of Death.

Katherine Lineham , who, in January Sessions last, was capitally convicted for a Street-Robbery upon Benjamin Parish , but repriev'd on Account of her Pregnancy, was called down to her former Judgment, and receiv'd Sentence of Death also.

While under Sentence, they were all seriously exhorted to prepare for Death, from these Words, Mark the perfect Man, and behold the Upright, for the End of that Man is Peace, Psalm xxxvii. 37. From whence I took Occasion to lay before them, the Difference between a good and a bad Life; the great Joy, and everlasting Reward, that will hereafter be the Portion of all those who live a godly, righteous, sober, and unblameable Life here, that they may, as they certainly will, as is promised by the Mouths of the holy Prophets, receive Eternal Life hereafter, for Blessed is the Man (says the Psalmist) unto whom the Lord imputeth not Iniquity, and in whose Spirit there is no Guile. Whereas, the wicked, abandoned Wretch, can expect nothing but Misery in this Life, as well as in that which is to come. Would Men but consider, that there is, that there must be, a last, a great, a solemn Day of Account, when all Men must appear in their true and genuine Colours, where nothing can hide them; how joyful must it be to them, who have done their Duty, and liv'd righteously, &c. to hear the Sound of Come ye Blessed of my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you, &c. But, alas! how dteadful must it be to those wicked Men, who have disobeyed, the Commands of their Maker, have lived riotously, &c. to hear the tremendous Sound of, Go ye Cursed into Everlasting Fire, &c. Would Men, I say, but consider this wide Difference, surely they should never so much sin against the Lord.

While these, and such like Ejaculations were pouring out upon them, I could observe them in general to be very penitent, and even to week. on which I endeavoured to comfort them, by exhorting them to have a lively Hope and Trust in the Goodness and Mercy of Almigh-God, who has said, That when the wicked Man turneth from his Sin, and heartily and sincerely repents thereof, he shall save his Soul alive. And again 'tis said in Scripture, That there is more Joy in Heaven, over one Sinner that repenteth, than over Ninety and Nine just Persons. In the New Testament, our Blessed Saviour invites all that labour and are heavy laden under a deep Sense of their Sins, to come unto him, Come unto me all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you Rest. Take my Yoke upon you and learn of me, for I am meek and lowly in Heart, and ye shall find Rest unto your Souls, for my Yoke is easy, and my Burden is light, Matt. xi. 28, 29, 30.

They were likewise exhorted to consider, that as they had fallen so greatly from their Baptismal Vows and Engagements, from the Grace and Favour of God, so they had the greater Reason to be more penitent, and endeavour to renew themselves again, by making solemn and sincere Vows and Resolutions of persisting in the Service of God, and for the better enabling them in this great Work, to make Preparations for the receiving the Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, wherein our baptismal Vows and Resolutions are renewed, and we are disposed for the everlasting Fellowship and Communion of God and Christ in Heaven.

They were also admonished, how unjust, how dishonourable, and how irreligious it is to rob Mankind of their Right and Property, how directly contrary and destructive it is to all Society in general, turning every Thing into Disorder and Confusion, which makes it absolutely necessary that their should be Laws enacted for Punishment equal to Crimes, and that all who are guilty of Rapine and Plunder should die, for 'tis better that some Individuals perish as Victims to the Law, than that the Community should suffer or perish by them.

While under Sentence they regularly and pretty constantly attended Chapel, particularly Thomas Steers , James Rayner , and Richard Eades , except when Steers was sick, and they all seemed attentive. Richard Eades indeed was illiterate and ignorant, but in Consideration of his Misfortunes often wept. John Scot was the greatest Part of the Time sick, so that he could not attend so constant as the rest, when he was visited in his Cell, he declared himself penitent for the Follies of his past mispent Life. Katherine Lineham was likewise a pretty constant Attendant, complied with the Worship, and was desirous of Instructions, tho' of the Romish Communion; she frequently lamented, and wept bitterly.

Tuesday the 14th of July, Report was made to their Excellencies the Lords Justices of the Kingdom in Council, of the five Malefactors under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate, when Thomas Steers of St. Martin's in the Fields , for assaulting Arabella Strickland on the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Cloth Cloak, value 7 s. a Silk Handkerchief, value 1 s. a Linnen Apron, value 2 s. a Linnen Cap, value 18 d. a Straw Hat, value 2 s. and 6 s. and 6 d. in Money, the Goods and Money of Arabella Strickland , March 10, and James Rayner of St. Andrews, Holborn , for stealing two 3 l. 12 s. Pieces, six 36 s. Pieces, and a Tortoiseshell Snuff-Box, value 18 d. the Goods and Money of Richard Westover , in his Dwelling-House, April 12, were reprieved; the other three, viz. Richard Eades , John Scot , and Katherine Lineham were appointed to die.

Richard Eades , Elizabeth Eccles , Elizabeth Jones alias Carnaby , and Mary Ecles alias Pugh , of St. George's , Middlesex , were indicted for privately Stealing a Watch, with the outside and inside Cases made of Silver, value 3 l. a pair of Silver Shoe Buckles, value 8 s. a pair of Silver Knee Buckles, value 4 s. a Hat,

value 5 s a Peruke, value 36 s. a pair of Spectacles with a shagreen Case, value 2 s. a blue and white spotted Linnen Handkerchief, value 6 d. a Silver Tobacco Stopper, value 3 s. two 36 s. Pieces, one Piece of Foreign Silver Coin, value 4 s. five Guineas and 20 s. in Money, the Goods and Money of J. Rogers from his Person, May 28, Rich. Eades guilty Death, Elizabeth Eccles and Elizabeth Jones guilty Felony.

I. Richard Eades 19 Years of Age, was born of mean Parents in the Parish of St. Olave, Southwark ; his Father left him with his Mother when he was but young, and went beyond Sea, where he still continues. His Mother took what Care the could of him, by putting him out to School for some little Time; but he being a very careless negligent Boy, forgetting all his Instructions, and retaining nothing. She went away and left him, and he never heard or knew what became of her since, so that poor Eades being now left to the wide World, or to the Parish, or in short to any Body who would take him, was exposed a Prey to the black Guard Boys and Girls in the Streets, for being of a perverse stubborn Disposition, no Body else would look upon him; among these he lived in all manner of Vices he was capable of committing, till he was taken by a Fisherman , who bound him to himself as an Apprentice, and here Dick began to reform a little, and served his Master honestly for several Years, till he was prest on Board a Man of War, in which Ship and two or three others which he was turned over to, he continued about four Years, tho' as it happened, none of those Ships went while he staid with 'em, farther than the Channel; whenever he could get ashore either by a Furlong for a Time, or by Leave for a few Hours, he was sure to squander away what Money he had in a most extravagant and profligate Way.

Eades came Home from Sea about three Quarters of a Year before he was taken up, and falling into Company with the Girls mentioned in the Indictment, and some others, they by Degrees stript him of all his Money, of his silver Buckles and in short, of all that he had, and made him spend every Shilling of his pay; after which, both he and they being reduc'd to extreme Poverty, began to think what they must do to live, and the only Way these abandon'd Black-Guard Wretches could think on, was to pick Packets, to thieve, rob and plunder all Mankind, and take all and every Thing they could lay their Hands upon.

On the 28th of May last, as John Rogers was coming from the new Wells in Goodman's Fields , pretty much in Liquor, going to the Black Bull in White-Chappel , he met Elizabeth Eccles , one of the three Girls above-mentioned; she persuaded him to go along with her into a Room, where she told him he might refresh and rest himself, and taking him up into a desolate Apartment in Norman-Court , in Cable Street , (where he found Richard Eades lying on the Floor with Elizabeth Jones , alias Carnaby , and Mary Eccles , alias Pugh , covered over with a Blanket or Rug) she made him set down, and called for a Pot of Beer, which they drank, and then he fell asleep

in the Chair, when the Girls robbed him, of his Money, Buckles, &c. and Eades robb'd him of his Watch, which being found upon him, occasioned his being found guilty. Tow Boys who laid conceal'd in the same Room, gave this Evidence against them. Eades would not confess any more Thefts or Robberies, but said that these three young Women had not only brought him into this Scrape, but was likewise the Cause of his coming to this miserable and disgraceful End: He own'd he had been a very wicked Youth, too much addicted to Idleness and loose Women, and had spent his Time and Money in a very foolish Manner; he attributed his Destruction entirely to these wicked Women, for when once he came into their Company, they would not let him go, and he not having Power enough to resist 'em, they led him into whatever Mischief they pleased; he commonly resided about Rag-Fair , and kept Company with a Parcel of the most abandon'd Wretches, too many of whom are in that Neighbourhood, whole Gangs of Thieves and Whores, who instructed him in every kind of Vice, to which he was of himself (without these hellish Counsellors) but too much addicted. While under Sentence, he always attended Chappel, behaved well, wept often, and gave diligent heed to Prayers and Instructions. He was miserably poor and naked, believ'd in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

Catherine Lineham , (with George Stacey , and Matthias Dennison , who were indicted and found Guilty before) of St. Martin's in the Fields , was indicted with Arthur Ohara , Thomas Cullin , William Shields , James Gough , Redman Keogh , Catherine Butler , and Margarett Massey , not taken) for assaulting Benjamin Parish , in the House of Redman Keogh , putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him three Portugal Pieces, Value seven Pounds, four Shillings, one Moidore, and 14 Guineas, the Money of the said Parish, October the 8th; upon this Indictment, Dennifin was acquitted, but for the other was cast, tho' repreived for Transportation for 14 Years, George Stacey was convicted for another Robbery on the same Person (as well as for this) and accordingly executed. Katherine Lineham guilty Death.

Katherine Lineham , about 20 Years of Age, was born of mean Parents in Dublin , who gave her but a very indifferent Education, they taught her indeed to read a little, but neglecting it, she soon forgot all; she profest the Romish Way , having been bred up in it, but was grosly ignorant of any Religion at all; when Young, she liv'd with her Parents, but was scarce arriv'd to any Age capable to distinguish any Thing at all, before she kept Company with the most reprobate Boys and Girls in the Neighbourhood, who train'd her up to all Manner of Vice, and brought her into such vile Habits, as she could never get rid of, delighting in nothing but the vilest Company, and most abominable Practices. She contracted a particular Familiarity with a Neighbour's Child, one John Lineham , a Butcher-boy , and about the Age of 12 or 13; she mar

ried him privately, and the young married Couple kept a Stall in Dublin Market ; in this Manner they liv'd for some time, and maintain'd themselves in a pretty good Way. But their Inclinations being too much corrupted, they soon left off Trade, keeping Company with Thieves, Robbers, and Cut-throats, so that they lost all Credit, and about two Years ago came over to London , and associated themselves with the Refuse of their own Nation, about Rag-Fair and the Hundreds of Drury , where they soon became noted for their vile and vicious Practices, which in the End, brought them both to their deserved Fate, for the Husband John Lineham , not two Years ago, was tried, convicted and executed for a Street-robbery; while he was under Sentence, Catherine was always at the Press yard Door, peeping thro' the Grates to see her Husband as he went to and from Chappel. Coming to understand who she was, and seeing her so young, I spoke to her, and advised her to take Example from that unfortunate young Man, her Husband, and to forsake those pernicious Courses which subjected him to the lash of the Law, and would have the same Effect upon her, if she did not reform her Life, by the neglecting of which Council, she underwent the same Punishment.

Catherine Lineham was tried and convicted in January Sessions last, but pleading her Belly, and a Jury of Matrons being impanelled, she was found quick with Child, tho' none of the Persons who belong'd to the Goal, ever saw that she had a Child, and nothing appearing, she was called down to her former Judgment.

After her Husband was executed, she kept on in her old Way with those vile Gangs of Thieves and Whores her Companions, with one of whom she immediately associated herself, and passed for his Wife. One of the chief Houses she was intimate in and daily frequented, was one Redman Keogh 's, a Countryman of her own, where a great number of the most infamous Creatures about the Town both Men and Women haunted.

On the 8th of October last, one Benjamin Parish from Oxfordshire , going by Keogh's House in Drury-Lane , pretty late at Night; to his Lodging in St. Giles's, two Men and two Women laid violent Hands on him, and pulled him into the House; where were Margaret Stanton , whom they called Ruggaty Madge, Katherine Lineham , George Stacey , and Mathias Dennison , (two of whom Ruggaty Madge and Stacey were since executed) with the rest in Company, pulled Benjamin Parish upon his Back, held him down by Violence, and Rugatty Madge with the Assistance of Stacey, tore open his Breeches Pocket, and robb'd him to the Value of 23 Guineas in Gold; while this was doing, Katherine Lineham assisted in holding Parish down, who cryed out, Murder! Robbery! Then they brought Cherry Brandy in Pint Mugs, and forc'd him to drink till he was very much fuddied; then Stacey and some others took him out, upon Pretence of leading him to his Inn, and robb'd him of Money, and a great many other Things in the Street in Long-Acre ; for this second Robbery he did not blame Katherine

Lineham, tho' to the first he swore positively against her. She confessed her frequenting Keogh's House, and being acquainted with all them who were indicted or suffered for these Robberies, as well as with many other infamous People, who commonly resorted to that vile House, the Master and Mistress of which are fled beyond Seas, with some others not yet taken, for that notorious Robbery. Katherine reflected on the Evidence Macdonnel, and the Prosecutor Parish, and would not own the Fact as they swore against her. I urg'd to her, how heinous! how great a Crime it was to launch into Eternity with a Lye in her Mouth, that 'twas an Aggravation of her Guilt; she still endeavour'd to excuse herself by laying the Blame on Keogh's Wife, and to make he Innocence appear, said, she was under so little Concern or Fear, that she was in the Sessions-House Yard at the Time Ruggaty Madge was tried; she was such an Infamous Creature, and so accustomed to do Evil, that she hardly ever did well; she and her Husband no sooner came over from Ireland, than they begun to practice Street Robberies, 'till he was taken up and executed, which was no Manner of Warning to her, for 'twas but very few Days after his Dying, that she was sent to Bridewell , for Theft, and in short, frequently committed Robberies 'till she was brought to Justice.

She came to Chappel almost all the whole Time, complied with the Worship, sung Psalms, wept often, and seemed to be much affected, tho' she died in the Romish Communion .

I thought it would not be amiss to give the Reader a short Account of John Scott , condemn'd with the above Malefactors, tho' since repriev'd for Transportation.

John Scot of St. Mary Bow , was indicted for stealing a black Mare, value 8 l. the Property of Thomas Wash , May 31 .

3. John Scot 27 Years of Age, was born in Essex , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School to Read, Write, cast Accompts, and fit him for Business, and had him instructed in Christian Principles When of Age he was not put to a Trade, but his Father a Farmer, bred him to Country Work , with whom for the most part he lived, and was employed in Farming Business, and at other Times he served Country Farmers, and was always honest, never guilty of Thefts or Robberies, and was in good Reputation in the Country, not addicted to the Vices those unfortunate People are commonly inclin'd to, but regularly went to Church, was of a sober Life and Conversation. About a Year ago he married a Widow Woman in his own Country; who was present at the Trial, being called by him as an Evidence in his Favour, but could not be admitted. John being at his Father's May 31, at Colengale in Essex , went to the Stable, took a Bridle and Saddle, and put it on the Back of a black Mare

belonging to Thomas Wash , a Neighbour of his Father's, and came straight to London , and putting the Mare up at Mr. Edward's the Bell at Bow, went himself to lodge at another House; coming next Morning for the Mare, Mr. Edwards observed she was very badly shooed, and suspecting her to be stolen, taxed Scot with it, who making a trifling Excuse, he secured and carried him before a Magistrate, who committed him to New-Prison , and had the Mare cry'd at Rumford and Epping. Mr. Wash coming to London to enquire after her, heard she was at Bow , went thither, swore to her, and upon his Evidence Scot was capitally convicted according to Law.

He was a poor timorous young Man, was sick most part of the Time, and could not attend Chapel, when I visited him in his Cell, he was very desirous of Prayers and Exhortations, and seem'd attentive and serious. He did not deny but that the Mare was Thomas Wash 's, but alledged in his Excuse, that he had Leave from his Father to take any of his Horses, and it being dark Night, he might easily make the Mistake, tho' this might be possible, yet the denying his Name as he did when he came before the Justice, and making Excuses, made it seem a little improbable, however the Prosecutor himself gave him a very good Character, as did several Neighbours from the same Country, but the Fact being plainly proved, that could not save him.

Thursday in the Afternoon, the Day before the other Prisoners suffer'd, a Reprieve came to Newgate for John Scot for Transportation.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Friday Morning between Six and Seven, Catherine Lineham and Richard Eades went to Chapel, after hearing of Prayers and singing of Psalms, (where Eades show'd abundance of Devotion) they were put into one Cart (about Eight or Nine o'Clock, in order to go to the Place of Execution) and appeared very serious and attentive, particularly Catharine Lineham , tho' of a different Profession. Eades own'd the Justice of his Sentence, and had nothing to add to his former Confessions.

Catherine Lineham own'd herself a very great Sinner, but made some Reflections to the Multitude. She made some short Prayers to God and Christ, and sometimes to the Blessed Virgin Mary.

They went off the Stage crying out to God to have Mercy on them, and to the Lord Jesus to receive their Spirit.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX:

An Account of the Robberies committed by Catherine Lineham , as related by her while under Sentence of Death.

CATHERINE Lineham , was the Wife of one John Lineham , who was try'd at the Old-Bailey in Jan. 1740, for assaulting David Patten , Esq ; (then High-Bailiff of Westminster ) on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Cane with a Gold Head, value 5 l. 5 s. on which Indictment he was capitally convicted, and Executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday, the 13th of February, 1740.

I formerly agreed with † Ruggety Madge, to go upon * biting the Culls of their Scouts when they were bung; in order that we might successfully manage our intended Enterprizes, we took an old uninhabited House, which nobody car'd to live in, near Plumbtree-street , St. Giles's ; one of the Rooms we furnish'd with an old Bedstead and a Blanket, with the Addition of two or three old rickety Chairs: These we thought, if we made any Thing considerable, would not be of much Value to loose; for after we had brought any Man fuddled to this Place, as we did several, and got any Thing from them, we quitted our Habitation several Days together, till the Hurry of the Enquiry was over, and then came back, which was always in the Evening after dark, for fear any body should smoak us; for we lodged a great Way distant from this House of Rapine, as I may call it.

Our first Adventure was upon a Quaker, who came out of Yorkshire; him we met in Fleet-street . I went up to him first, and gave him a Chuck under the Chin, and at the same Time asked him to treat me with a Glass of Wine. He, Gudgeonlike, greedily swallowed the Bait, and asked me, if I knew ever a Place thereabouts, where we might be accommodated. I quickly conducted him to an House in that Neighbourhood, we drank two or three Pints of Wine by ourselves, and then Madge, who knew her Cue, enquired after me, and was immediately conducted to us in the same Room, by the Drawer. When she came in, my Chap was very merry, and likewise very amorous, and I finding I could persuade him

† Ruggety Madge, otherwise Margery Stanton , executed for the same Fact.

* Robbing Persons whom they pick up of their Watches.

to almost any thing, I asked him to go home along with me to my Lodgings, which he readily consented to. So paying our Reckoning, we all three went away. I not thinking him safe till I had made him quire drunk, conveyed him in our Way to a small § Boozing and Fence Ken, where we drank several Drams, till my Chap began to be quite mellow, and it began to grow pretty late; from thence I proposed to go Home to our ‖ Mill Ken. Now Madge was gone before to prepare for our Reception: We walked through several Alleys and Turnings before we arrived at our intended Port, which made honest Yorkshire say, Zaunds! Ise think we shall nere get to this Hause of yours. Yes, my Dear, we shall presently; and so we did too soon for him poor Man. When we came to the Door, we was let in by my Sister in Iniquity, Madge, who, as soon as we had got upon the Stair-case, let the Candle fall on Purpose, that we might be in the Dark. Hey-dey! says Madge, what shall we do now? the Candles out, and I can't find the Tinder-box. Oh! says I, my Dear and I can find our Way, and do you grope about, and see if you can find the Dram Bottle. So conducting my Spark up Stairs, I plac'd him upon the Chair near the Bedside, and sat myself down by him. We had not sat long before he fell fast asleep in the Chair, having, as I observed before, drank pretty hard, and being very much tir'd. As soon as we found him in this Condition, we began to examine the Contents of his Pockets, and found upwards of 15 * Ridges, besides a † Rum Fem upon his Finger. We not being content with this, took his § Wedges out of his ‖ Stomps, and observing before, he had a pretty rum outside and inside †† Togee, we pull'd them off, and made free with them likewise. When we had so done, we roll'd him up in a Blanket, and laid him upon the Bedstead, and went away and left him in that Condition to our ** Bidings, and snack'd the Cole: The Togees and Wedges was divided between our particular Spouses, one of them we sent early the next Morning, to see the Issue of this Adventure. When he came there, he found the poor Countryman in the House, with a great Mob of People round him, wrapp'd up in the Blanket, like an AEgyptian Mummy, almost mad; some commiserating his Condition, others blaming his Folly. The poor Fellow

§ A publick House.

‖ Lodging.

* Guineas.

† Diamond Ring.

§ Buckles.

‖ Shoes.

††A good Coat and Waistcoat.

** Lodgings.

storm'd like one out of his Senses. Zaunds! if these be your London Whores, Ise gang to York, and neer set Foot in this deamn'd Pleaice agaune. When our Friend came back, and told us how Affairs went, we judg'd it most proper not to go back again for some Time. Some few more Tricks of this Nature oblig'd us to quit our House for good and all.

Some small Time after these Adventures, as I was stroling down Chancery-lane, I met with one Sarah Priestly ; she asked me to go along with her upon the * Slang-Madge, which I readily agreed to; and that we might the more successfully carry on our intended Scheme, we got a couple of Suits of Men's Apparel, and dressing ourselves, we bent our Course towards St. James's-Park ; now Sally had a Spouse, a Soldier, who usually made Interest to stand Centinel in that Place.) When we came there, we fixed ourselves at some Distance (but within Ear-shot) upon a Bench near where he stood. We had not been long there, before a Couple of well-dress'd elderly Men, came and sat down by us. We judged by their Actions, that they were Women Haters, and sooner chose to have to do with one of their own Sex, than with ours. After they had sat by us sometime, without speaking, one of them gave me a gentle pull by the Coat, which Motion I could not understand; at last one of them broke Silence, and thus accosted us. I think, Gentlemen, it is a mighty fine Evening: Yes, Sir, reply'd I, 'tis a charming Night. Laird! my dear Soul, says the other to Sally, you and I have been together some where before, and at the same Time gave her a Squeeze by the Hand. Some few more Expressions, too obscene and shocking to mention, passed between us, and they thinking us Men, and fit for their Purpose, began (it being dark) to use closer Familiarity. Sally who knew her Cue, gave a loud Hem! and immediately up comes her Friend, who found us with our Breeches about our Heels. Hey-day! what's going forward here, a Parcel of B – gg - rs, I'll secure you all, and have you hang'd; and at the same Time pretended as if he would alarm the other Centinel. We begged for Heaven's Sake, not to expose us, and we would make him a Present of a considerable Value; which Motion was seconded by our two old Sparks, who was terrified

* Biting the Mollies.

out of their Senses, and pull'd out all the † Cole they had in their Cly, which amounted to sixteen § Ridges; but he not being content with this, asked them if they had nothing else. Then they pulled out their ‖ Tatlers, and tipp'd him them likewise: As soon as they had so done, he asked us what we had to give him, but before we could give him an Answer, the Sharks begged to be dismist; which Proposal was readily agreed to, so they took their Leaves without much Ceremony, and marched off with great Precipitation, scarce bidding us good Night. When they were gone, we went and divided the Spoil; and as soon as our Spark was dismist from his Post, he met us, and we went and feasted with these execrable Wretches Money, who, if I had my Will, should be burnt alive. We got several Booties by these Means, and lived well upon our Business; but Sally's Spouse dying, reduced us to think of something else for Support, we fearing to turn out by our selves, least we should be brought into any Scrape, and having no Man to stand by us.

Some Days after our Friend's Death, Sally and I coming by St. Paul's Church-Yard one Evening pretty late, we espied a § Boozey-Cock very bung, making Water against a Post; him I went up to, and accosted with the usual Question, How do you do, my Dear? and finding him going to be loving: Hold, my Love, says I, let's go some where and drink first; which he agreeing to, we went to a little Max-Ken, near Fleet-Lane , where we drank so long we could scarce see one another. After we had so done, I handed him up an Alley near the aforesaid Place, and took my Opportunity to pick his Pocket of 2 Guineas and some Silver. After I had so done, I got at a little Distance from him, it being very dark he could not see me; but cry'd out, Ho! where are you? I made no Answer, so supposed that he put his Hand into his Pocket to feel for his Money, for he presently after cry'd out, Ruin'd and Undone! Robb'd! here Watch! Watch! I hearing this, thought it was no Time for me to stay any longer there, so contriv'd to slip by him unperceiv'd. Some small Time after the Watch came up with a Light, and going into the Alley, I stood on the other Side of the Way, talking to Sally very gravely, who had follow'd us, and watched all my

† Money in their Pockets.

§ Guineas.

‖ Watches.

§ Drunken Man.

Motions; as soon as he came into the Alley with a Light, a poor Woman came down upon some Occasion or other. As soon as the Spark espied her, Oh! says he, this is the B - h that has robbed me of all my Money, and immediately charged the Watchman with her; and notwithstanding all the poor Woman could say in her Defence, hurried her away to the Watchhouse; we follow'd her at some Distance, being anxious for her, knowing we deserved her Misfortune. When the Woman came to the Watch-house, she was searched, as we could hear by the Bustle made within the Watch-house, and nothing found in her Pocket, except about Eight Penn'orth of Half-pence; but the Man persisting in what he said, they was both sent to the Compter, where they remain'd till the next Day; when Sally and I, being very uneasy, we agreed she should dress herself pretty smart, and go to the Compter to enquire into the Affair, and if Occasion requir'd, she was to declare before the Justice, that as she was coming by accidentally about the Time the Affair happened, she heard a Noise, and presently saw a Woman run by her in a hurry, who almost knock'd her down and run away, and after the Watch came, she heard the Man accuse that Woman in Custody, whom she believ'd to be entirely innocent.

This Story we thought would do, especially as being Strangers to the Woman, could have no Interest in saying so: And if that did not do, I was afterwards to come in myself, and second her Story. This Stratagem had the desir'd Effect, for the Woman having a good Character, and the Man being drunk at the same Time, the Justice discharged her upon that, and what we said.

I chuse not to tire the Readers Patience with any more of these Scenes, being most of them done in the same Manner.

Some few Weeks after this, I happen'd to have some Words with Sally, and we seperated, happy was it for her! for not long after I was taken up for this unhappy Affair, for which I must suffer a shameful, ignominious Death. Tho' I die innocent thereof, (if the Reader may believe her) I have deserved Death several Times for my illegal Practices.

I hope this will be a Warning to her, and may my dismal Downfal be a Means of her Repentance; for with Shame and Confusion of Face I speak it, I never thought myself more happy, than when I was do

ing some illegal Action. Oh! may all unhappy, unthinking young Women, shun the deceitful Snares of Vice, and learn from me, that a Life spent in Innocence and Virtue, with the meanest Poverty, is preferable to gaining the Indies, by Injustice, Rapine, Fraud, and Violence.

The following Letter was sent some few Days before she Died, which is as follows, viz.

Mrs. Lineham.

I Have been several Times to see if I could get Admittance to see you before you depart this wicked World; but I cannot prevail with the Person who opens the Door of the Press-Yard; indeed I cannot take it amiss of him, he being oblig'd to obey his Orders. I therefore take this Opportunity to admonish you by Letter, as far as my poor Capacity.

I beg and desire of you to seek your Comfort from Almighty God, for 'tis he alone can Right you; bare up under your Load of Misfortunes, for we have a merciful God, if we return with sincere Repentance, he will forgive our former Sins.

Therefore the few precious Moments you have, I beg of you for Christ Jesus Sake loose not a Moment of those few Hours which you have to live, but be continually on your Knees in your dismal and dark Cell, where you now lie confin'd 'till the fatal Day of your Exit calls you off it, to go to the Place of Execution, calling to God to have Mercy on your poor Soul; which Pray God send he may. Lord have Mercy on you, Christ have Mercy on you; which is the sincere and hearty Prayers of,

Your dear Friend,

Thomas Wilks .

Westminster .

July 27, 1741.

Another LETTER, which was sent to CATHERINE LINEHAM , a few Days before she Suffer'd.

To CATHERINE LINEHAM , Under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate .

" I Take this Opportunity, though almost a Stranger, to remind you of " your unhappy Condition, and to beg " your serious Attentions to the following Lines.

" You have been a long Time under " Sentence, therefore have had Time " to reflect on your former Follies and " Misdeeds; and I sincerely wish, that " this Affliction has made you think " with the Wise Man, that all past " Transactions, are Vanity and Vexation " of Spirit.

" But to come closer to the Matter: " Have you hd a strong Conviction of " your former Sins and Transgressions; " that is, have you been broken hearted? for those our Lord will heal, nay " has promised it upon Oath, As I live, " saith the Lord, I take no Pleasure in " in the Death of him that dieth; " meaning, them that truly repent of " their Sins shall be saved, and those " who do not, he is grieved at.

" Oh! beg earnestly of him, and " he will direct you in this important " Matter. Cry to him, and he will " have Mercy on you. Consider, you " are in a few Days launching into a " long Eternity. Now! now! you have " Time, oh! improve it to your spiritual Advantage, and may the God " of all Power, so influence and guide " you, that you may receive that Peace, " even here, which passeth all Understanding; then! then! you will go " hence, from mortal Misery, to immortal Happiness."

So prayeth, Your sincere Friend, And humble Servant.

J. B.

The following ACCOUNT of RICHARD EADES was taken from his own Mouth, Two Days before his Execution.

RIchard Eades , who was convicted of stealing a Silver Watch from the Person of John Rogers , at a House near Rag-Fair , was at the Time of his Execution about 20 Years of Age.

He was born in St. Mary Overy's Parish, of Parents who never took the least Care of his Education, so that at the Time of his Execution he could neither Write or Read. His Father followed the Employment of a Needle maker, and he using his Wife, the Mother of this unhappy Person, not so well as he should have done, she deserted him, the Consequence of which was, his Father's going over to Gibraltar some Time afterwards in the Capacity of a Soldier.

When he arrived to the 11th Year of his Age, not thinking it proper to follow his Father's Business, he put himself Apprentice to one John Pocock , a Fisherman of Rotherhith , with whom he lived about six Years, during which Time his indolent Disposition and the Correction his Master consequently gave him on that Account, caused him to make several Elopements.

The greatest Part of the Time he was absent from his Master's Service, he went to Sea, and was employ'd by the Captains of several Men of War as their Servant The first Person who entertained him as a Servant was Capt. Townshend of the Plymouth Man of War , with whom he staid a short Time and then left him.

After this he serv'd Capt. Rook of the Sunderland , with whom he went to impress Men in the Channel for his Majesty's Service for about six Months, and the Ship being then paid off he was discharged.

After this he lurk'd about Portsmouth till his Money was spent, and Distress and Poverty began to present themselves to his View, and then he thought it Time to look out for another Place, and accordingly he got one, in which he staid a very short Time, and then left it.

Sometime after this he thought it convenient to come to London , where he had not resided a great while before he was impressed five Times, as a proper Person to serve his Country, but unhappily for himself he as often got off; once in particular he was taken hold of by a Press Gang, who carried him to a publick House, next Door to the Black Boy and Trumpet in St. Katherine's , and while the Sailors turn'd their Back, he took an Opportunity and got away.

From this Time he lived continually upon the Spoil, committing several little Thefts till the 5th of Nov. last, when he and another Man of the same Disposition as himself, accidentally met with Elizabeth Eccles , Mary Eccles , and Elizabeth Jones , who were seeking their Prey in Crooked-Lane .

They desired him to go with them to see the Bonfires in the City, to which he readily comply'd, and after they had sufficiently satisfied their Curiosity in this Manner, the Girls took him and his Companion to their Lodging in Kent-street , and from this Time they contracted so great an Intimacy with each other, that they agreed to go out upon the Plunder together, and in pursuance to this Agreement, they let no Opportunity slip, but made use of all the Advantages that offer'd themselves to get their Living this Way.

This Course they continued to pursue till they were detected for the Robbery committed on Mr. Rogers, for which the three Women received Sentence of Transportation, and he capitally convicted and brought to suffer the Punishment he deserved.

The following LETTER was sent to Richard Eades , while he lay under Condemnation,

My dear Friend and Schoolfellow.

I Am sorry to take Pen in Hand to write to you in such great Calamities, my Heart is overwhelmed with Grief, even to think of your unfathom'd Troubles. But my Dear Friend, the chief Design of my Writing is, to beg of you that you would make your Peace with that God whom you have so often offended. For if he should be Extreme, to mark what is done amiss who may abide it. But there is Mercy with thee good Lord, that thou may'st be fear'd, God has promised Forgiveness upon a true and unfeign'd Repentance to the worst of Sinners. Jesus Christ died for Sinners, he did not die for them that think that they had Righteousness enough of their own. I hope my dear Friend, you are convinced you are not able to stand in the Final Day of Retri

tribution, without the Righteousness of Jesus Christ is imputed to your Soul. I Pray God that you may see yourself to be Poor and Miserable, and Blind and Naked; that you may be convinced of the Necessity of a dying Saviour, who suffer'd that most ignominious, that shameful, that painful Death of the Cross for us poor miserable Sinners.

My dear Friend, consider how short your Time is, you to all Appearance at Present, have but a few Moments before you will be divested of this Earthly Tabernacle. God grant you may be fitted and prepared to entertain the Summons of Death with Joy and Felicity, and be made to triumph in a glorious Immortality. May the Lord grant that before you leave this World, you may be enabled to cry out, the Lord Jesus is made unto me Wisdom and Righteousness, and Sanctification and Redemption; may God of his infinite Mercy grant you may cry out by Faith, as did the Penitent Thief, upon the Cross. Lord have Mercy on me, when thou comest into thy Kingdom. The Lord grant that this comfortable Answer may be made to speak Peace to thy Soul, as it was to the Penitent, this Day shalt thou be with me in Paradice. May the Lord grant that you may be qualified to praise him to all Eternity, crying, Holy! Holy! Holy! Lord God Almighty, which was and is to come. Which is the hearty Prayer of

Your Sincere Friend

Joseph Bishop .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

The Three following BOOKS are Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , Printer , in Bolt-Court , Fleet-street .

THE Life and Adventures of GILBERT LANGLEY , formerly of Searle street near Lincoln's Inn-Fields .

Containing particularly,

His Family, Education, and Accidents in his tender Years. His being sent into Flanders , to the Convent of English Benedictines at Doway , with a curious Detail of their Method in bringing up Youth. His Return to England , and his first Slips in Point of Honesty and Virtue. His Amours with all Sorts of loose Women, and great Variety of Accidents which happened in Consequence of them. His meeting with a Cheat, who had Address enough to bite him twice. His Marriage, and fraudulent Arts to support a broken Fortune. His Contrivance to amass a vast Quantity of Jewels, Watches, rich Toys, &c. to the Amount of 20,000 l. His Flight to Holland , and strange Adventures there, till detected by his Creditors, and best Part of his Effects taken from him. His Return to England ; Voyage to the West Indies , Rogueries there, and miserable Condition when he came back. Imprisoned in the Compter; reduc'd to Want; hangs himself at a Bailiff's House: escapes from thence, and a new Trip to Sea. His Travels through Spain ; Adventures in the Canaries ; Arrival in Italy , and Return to London . His last Exploit, which brought him within Sight of a Halter.

Written by Himself, in Maidstone Goal , when under Condemnation for a Robbery committed on the Highway.

[Price One Shilling.]

BOOKS, &c.

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Baily, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodo Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720, e present Time; chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in r, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Conns and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. e Trials, &c. are not to be met with in any other Collection. Two Volumes, Price 14 s.

These Two Volumes contains the TRIALS of ings and Sympson, for robbing the Bristol Mail, with Account of all their Robberies.

, the famous Highwayman, that bore 350 Pound weight on his Breast.

, Barton, Fox, Hawes, Wright, ouse, Drury, Warwick, Yates, strong, Beck, Edwards, and any others, all famous Highwaymen and Street-Robberies.

Grey, the famous Footman, Burglary with an Intent ravish Mrs. Murray.

Kraaese, Pritchard Simmonds , , Ellis, and many others Rapes, all very entertaining.

Stanley, for the Murder his Whore.

en, Crony, Nichols, Mac Gennis, terell, the famous Nanny ler, Vaughan, and Cholmly wo Constables) Foster Snow , many others for Murder.

Ony, for the Murder of Gower, with his Life. and Hallam, for the Murder of their Wives.

rd Savage, Esq; for Murder, with his Life.

in Jane, for Murder.

rd Stafford, Esq; and many ers.

Salisbury, for an Attempt to the Hon J – F -, Esq; arles Burton, Bart, for Fe

Gabriel Laurence , and a many others, for Sodomy, shewing all the Tricks and Methods used by the Mollies.

Squire Day, alias Davenport, for a Cheat; and several others for bilking their Lodgings.

Two German Counts, for forging a Bank Note.

Jonathan Wild , for several Felonies, with several Particulars of his Life, never before published.

Mrs. Gregory, for marrying Squire Cockeril, under Pretence of being a great Fortune.

The infamous Catherine Hays , who murdered her Husband, and lay with another Man the very same Night.

Mrs. Sherman, for giving Poison to Mr. Chovet.

Vevers, the Bricklayer, on all his Indictments.

Mary Hendron for marrying Miss Morris to an Irishman, against her Consent.

Blind Cowper and Harpham, and others, for Coining

Russel, for a Misdemeanour, in endeavouring to carry away Mrs. Benson.

William Hales , Esq ; and Parson Kinnersley, for Forgery.

Ackinson for the Murder of his Mother, at Charing Cross.

Mother, at Charing Cross.

With a great Number of diverting TRIALS of Whores, for robbing of those that pick'd them up; and several other remarkable ones for the Highway, Rapes, Murders, Burglaries, &c.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trial among which are upwards of seventy Trials for Murder, Sixty of Whores for privately stealing, upwards of one Hundred for the Highway, about Thirty for Rapes; the rest being Frauds, Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy Bigamy, Shop-lifting, R Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single Felonies,

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictments, other Persons concern'd in Prosecutions, &c. but are very ful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers.

Neatly printed in Two Pocket Volumes, adorn'd with Frontispieces.

A Select and impartial Account of the Li Behaviour, and Dying Words, of the most remble Convicts, from the Year 1700, down to the sent time; containing amongst many others the following counts. viz. Richard Turpin , for several Robberies; He Strodman, for the barbarous Murder of Peter Wolter , Fellow Apprentice ; Thomas Cook , the Gloucester Butcher , the Murder of Mr. John Cooper , a Constable in May John Morgridge , for the Murder of Lieutenant Cope in Tower ; Mr. Gregg, Clerk to the late Secretary Harley, of Oxford, for holding Correspondence with her Majesty's mies; Richard Town , Tallow Chandler , the only Person was executed on the Bankrupt Act; Col. Oxburgh, Rich Gascoigne , Esq , Justice Hall, and Parson Paul, for Hi Treason; the Marquis de Paleot, for stabbing his Servant; L Bird, for the Murder of Samuel Loxton , at a Bagnio; thias Brinsden, for the Murder of his Wife; Capt. John Ma for Piracy; Capt. John Stanley , for the Murder of Mrs. cock; Jonathan Wild , the Thief-taker, for several Felon Katharine Hayes ; for the barbarous Murder of her Husband Edward Burnworth , William Blewit , and five more, for the Murder of Mr. Ball, in St. George's Fields ; James Cluff , for Murder of his Fellow Servant Mary Green ; John Gow , Smith, Captain of the Pirates, for Piracy and Murder; Maynee, one of the Clerks of the Bank of England, for ching the Bank of 4420 l. Mr. Woodmarsh, for the Murder of Robert Ormes ; John Sheppard , who made his Escape out the Condemn'd Hole, and likewise out of the Stone Room Newgate ; Robert Hallam , for the barbarous Murder of Wife, by throwing her out of Window; Mr. Shelton, Apothecary, an Highwayman; Sarah Malcolmb , for the barbarous Murder of Anne Price . Eliz Harrison , and Lydia Dunco in the Temple ; John Field , Joseph Rose . William Bush , Humphry Walker , for entering the Houses of Mr. Lawre and Mr. Francis, &c. with above a hundred more.

Faelix quem faciunt altena Pericula catum.

Errata. Page 4. Line 12. Column 2. Instead of Week, read Weep.

FINIS.

