The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confession, and Last Speech of John Whittingham , who was Executed at Tyburn , on Friday the 18th Day of July, 1707.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old Baily on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday the 9th, 10th, and 11th, instant, John Whittingham was arraign'd, try'd, and found guilty of Felony and Burglary; and so receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly.

While he lay under this Condemnation, I had him up to Prayer in the Chappel of Newgate twice every Day. And on the LORD'S DAY the 13th instant I Preach'd to him and others there present, in the Morning, upon part of the Epistle for the Day, 1 Pet. Ch. 3, the former Part of the 11th Verse. Let him eschew evil, and do ood.

Which Words, together with those they have an immediate relation to, having explain'd in general, and shew'd both from the Text and Context, as likewise from several other Places of Scripture, That the whole Duty of Man consists of these two Parts, viz. 1. To forbear doing evil: And 2. To be diligent in doing good: I then proceeded to discourse, in a particular and distinct manner, upon these three Heads.

I. That we ought not only to eschew evil in Thoughts, Words, and Deeds; but, according to the Apostle's Precept, 1 Thess. 5. 22, abstain from all appearance of evil.

II. That, as a necessary Consequence of this, we ought to do good through the whole Course of our Lives, and hereto apply all our Faculties, and make all our Thoughts, Words, and Actions to conspire

III. And lastly, That for a Reward of our faithful Discharge of both this Negative and Positive Duty of Abstaining from evil, and doing good, God will make our Life comfortable to us here in this World, and advance us to perfect Happiness here after in the World to come.

(In the Afternoon I Preach'd upon these Words taken out of the Second Lesson) 1 Thess. 5. 3. For hen they shall say, Peace and Safety; then sudden estruction comes upon them as Travail upon a Woman with Child; and they shall not escape.

From which Words, pointing us to the Seond Coming of Christ, I shew'd;

I. The Certainty and Design of that Coming; which is matter of Comfort to the Godly, Terror to the Wicked, and Instruction to all

II. The Suddenness, and uncertain time of it.

III. Ult. How greatly it concerns Men to be always prepar'd both for Death and Judgment, that they may be surpris'd by neither of them, to their Eternal Destruction.

Having enlearg'd upon these Heads, I concluded with a particular Exhortation and Application to the Person Condemned, who seem'd attentive to the Word, and (as it became him) devout in his Prayers.

In my private discourse with him, I found he had receiv'd from his Parents, but a very slender Education in matters of Religion, and had practised very little thereof: Which he was now sensible, had brought this evil upon him. He said, he was above Seventeen Years of Age; That he was born in Cheek-Lane London in the Parish of St. Andrew's Holbourn ; That he had been in HER MAJESTY'S Service at Sea for above 4 years, off and on; and, That the Ship on Board which he served last, was the Namure, a 2d Rate, Capt, Mynns Commander: That he had also learned of his Father, the Plaisterer's Trade , and had work'd on it with him and others, for some time, and did clear 15 Shillings a Week by it. He confess'd he was justly condemned, as being a Party concerned in the Robbery attempted in the House of Mr. Davis on the 2d Day of June last past; and wish'd he had learn'd to be wiser, by the Correction he had lately receiv'd for robbing Mr. Carpenter's House, on the 2d Day of April last; for which he was burnt in the Hand, and sent to Bridewell to work, and become honest: But instead of that, being unwilling to labour and reform, he broke out of that House; and as soon as he was abroad again, fell upon this Robbery, for which he is now (and that by his own Confession) justly to suffer. He said, it was since Bartholomew last, that he enter'd upon this ill Practice of Thieving; and that the first Fact he had committed of this Nature, was about 10 Months ago, at an Alehouse in Sharp-Ally near Com-Cross , out of which, he, with another (the Man that first inticed him to this slippery way) took some Strong Drink, and nothing else. He affirm'd, that these 3 were the only Robberies he ever committed, or was concern'd in; and, That he knew nothing of Mr. Wyat's House being Robb'd; the Keys belonging to Mr. Wyat, which were found upon him, having been given him by One, whom he call'd Jack Calis . This he declar'd, and further told me of all his Accomplices; who will do well now to learn Wisdom, and take Warning by his Fall, so as to amend their wicked Lives without delay, lest the same evil may overtake them, and God may be so provoked by their long and obstinate Continuance in Sin, as to shew them no Mercy in this World, nor in the next.

This John Whittingham being ask'd what those Sins were he had been most addicted to, before he fell upon Robbing, he told me they were Sabbath-breaking, Idleness, Gaming, keeping bad Company, and having to do with Lewd Women, &c. Which dangerous Vices he desir'd, that all (especially Young Men) would carefully avoid: For had he done so himself, he should never have come to this his shameful and untimely Death. While he was under this Condemnation, I could not observe but that he behaved himself very

well. As he did so in my Presence, so I sound he did in the Condemned Hold, where he had the Charitable Assistance of that ingenious Gentleman (a Prisoner for Debt) who, as I mention'd in my last Paper, proved very useful to James Hacket , when under Condemnation; and did so to this, with whom he was willing to spend whole Nights in reading &c.

At the Place of Execution, to which he was this Day carry'd in a Cart, I attended him for the last time; and after some proper Exhortations, Prayers, Singing of Penitential Psalms, and rehearsing the Articles of our Christian Faith, and finally recommending him to the Mercy of God, I let him to his private devotions; for which he had some time allow'd him: Who before he was turned off, desired the Standers-by to take Warning by him, and pray for his departing Soul. His last Words were, Lord, have Mercy upon me! Lord, forgive me my Sins! Lord Jesus receive my Soul.

This is all the Account here to be given of this Dying Person, by

Friday, July 18th. 1707.

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

††† Whereas some Persons do frequently take the Liberty of putting out of Sham-Papers, pretending to give an Account of the Malefactors (called the Lives and Conversations of the Persons Executed) in which Papers they are so defective and unjust, as sometimes to mistake even their Names and Crimes, and often misrepresent the State they plainly appear to be in under their Condemnation, and at the time of their Death. To prevent which great Abuses, These are to give Notice, That the only true Account of the Dying Criminals, is that which comes out the Day after their Execution in a single half Sheet, about 9 in the Morning, the Title whereof constantly be gins with these Words, The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, &c. In which Paper (always Printed on both sides the better to distinguish it from Connterfeits) are set down the Heads of the several Sermons Preach'd before the Condemned: And after their Confessions and Prayers, and Atestation thereto under the Ordinary's Hand, that is, his Name at length; and at the bottom the Printer's Name, Dryden Leach ; which if the Readers would but observe, they would avoid those scandalous Cheats heretofore constantly impos'd upon them.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

In few Days will be Publish'd.

THE Monthly Miscellany, or Memoirs for the Curious, occasionaly containing Divinity and Law, Philosophy Morral Natural and Experimental, Mathematicks in its several Branches, Physick Chymistry Surgery, Anotomy and Botany, Epitome of Books and News impartially done. Lives and Characters of Famous Persons as well Living as Dead, being the Life of Doctor Sherloch, Letters on several Subjects; History Poetry and Travels. For the Month of June. Sold by J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall Price, 6d. where may be had the 5 foregoing, Lives of Prince Lewis of Baden and my Lord Cutts, Mr. Jeremiah White late Chaplain to Oliver Cromwel , and D. Drake. Containing several other curious Miscellaneous Works in sundry Faculties.

THERE is now prepared and to be Sold only at Mr. Deighton's, a Perfumer, at his Shop at the corner of Chancery-Lane in Fleet-street, the only famous Beautifying Water, for the clearing and making the Face fair, tho' of the brownish Complexion, which by its use has been experimented to make the Skin smooth and white and also to take off all Pimples and Redness, from 2s. 6d. to 5s. a Bottle. Just Publish'd.

*** A new and exact Draught of the City of Thoulon, with all its Fortifications. The Basom for the King's Ships of War, &c. Sold by John Philips next the Fleece Tavern in Cornhill and by B. Bragg, in Pater-Noster-Row. Where may be had a Haxagon, fortify'd with all sorts of Out-works, according to the modern Method of Fortification, useful for those who read the publick News.

A Presentative against Atheism and Infidelity. The Remains of Cardinal Du Perron, president Thumanus, Monsieur St Evremont, and other great Men. Both by Thomas Osborn in Gray's Inn next to the Walks, and Samuel Butler near Bernard's Inn , Holbourn .

This Day is Publish'd.

THE Diverting Muse, or the Universal Medley, Written by a Society of merry Gentlemen, for the Entertainment of the Town. The First Part. Consisting of the Husmours of a Coffee-house. Sollitary Enjoyment, or the Pleasure of Contemplation. An off-hand Epitaph upon the Weasel. A Lampoon upon two Sisters, famous Strumpets in the City The dying Husband and the joyful Wife. The Resolute Lady. The plain Dealer A Dialogue Song between a forward Youth and a young Lady The meaning Lover. London: Printed, and Sold by B. Bragg at the Raven in Pater-noster-row, 1707.

Newly Publish'd the 2d Edition of

*** The Life and Glorious History of his Grace John Duke and Earl of Malborough , Prince of the Empire, Capt. General of her Majesty's Forces &c. containing an Account of the most Important Battles, Seiges, Negotiations &c. managed under his Auspicious Conduct; both in the Wars of Flanders and Ireland , with a large Account of the ever Memorable Battles of Hockstet and Schellenberg in Germany , also his March to the Moselle in 1705. his return to the Netherlands and forcing the French Lines near Tirlemont and his last Victory at Ramallies , with many Remarkable Passagos from his 1st advancement in the Court of King Charles the II. to this present time. Printed for John Chantry at the Sign of Lincolnsin-back Gate , Price bound one Sailling.

Jst published,

A Cry from the Desart: Or, Testimonials of the Things lately come to pass in the Cevennes, upon Oath and by other Pros. Translated from the Original. The 2d Edition. With a Preface by John Lacy , Esq ; price 8d. Sold by B. Bragge at the Raven Pter-noster-Rw; where way be had Prophetical Warnings of Marion, heretofore one of the Commanders of the Protestnes tha had taken Arms i the Cevennes, or Discourses uttered by him in London the Operation o the Spirit, and faithfully taken in Writing whilst they were spoken, price 1s. An Apology for the English Dissenters, by the Confessions of Foreign Protestant Churches, and particularly by Letters from that of Geneva, which may serve as an Answer to several Letters from the Pastors of the Church of Geneva, to the Archbishop of Canerbury, the Bishop of London, and the University f Oxford, with the Answers to them, price 6d. The Historical Catehisme: Or, an Explanation of the Old and New Testament, by way of Questions and Answers, after a more easie and familiar manner thn hitherto extant, very edifying and profitable for Children to learn, before they begin to Read the Bible. By a Reverend Divine of the Church of England.

Lately printed,

BIshop Hickman's 14 Sermons. Ostervald's Grounds and Principles of the Cheistian Religion, M Norris' Theory of the World, in 2 Vols. Dr. Attetbury's Vindication of p. Tils 14 Vo s. of Sermons against Popery. Sir ustrde Which Essays. Mr. Lewis's Companion for the Afflictd, and the Church explained. An Essay against Idleness. A Postural Letter from a Minister to hs Parishioners, with the Christian daily Devotion. George Foxe 's last Will and Testament. Mr. Keth's serious Call to the Quakers. Dr. Bray's aptismal Covenant. All printed for W. Hawes, at the Bible and Rse in Ludgate-street, for whom will be speedily published, Dr. Bray's Bibliotheca with large Additions.

THE second part of the Pulpt Fool, a Satyr; containing a distct Character of the most noted Clergy-men in the Queen's Dominiors, Church-men and Dissenters Price 1 s. To this Satyr is annexd a paneyrick upon Archbishop Tenison, Bp. Burnet, Bp. , Dr. Sou, D. Stanhope, Dr. Lucas, Dr. Blackall, Dr. Moss, Mr. Norris, Mr. Hoadly, M. Flamstead, Mr. Graener, Mr. Stennet. Mr. Rosewl, Mr. Franks, Mr. Clark, Mr. Palmer, Mr. Calamy, Mr. Showers. Mr. Henery, Mr. Lews, Mr. Maudit, Mr Freks, Mr. Walker. Wh the Characters of near 200 Clergy-men more, eminent for prety d Learning. Printed for B. Bragge, in Patter-Nester-Row, of whom may be had, The first Part of the Pulpit Fool, a Satyr which (together with the 2d part) comprehends a general History, of tho Verse, but more especially of such as are Heterodox and ten, for Railing at protestant Dissenters.

Newly publish'd.

THE Devout Christians Companion consisting of Devotions for all Occasions. An Office for the Sick, and a Treatise for the H. Sacrament. Collected from the Works of Abp. Tiotson, Bp. Kenn, Bp. patrick, Bp. Beverge, Dr. Scots, Dr. Horneck, Dr. Stanhope &c. The 2d Edition price 2 s. 6 d. Likewise Caesar's Commentaries of his Wars in Gaul and Civil war with popey, to which is added. Alus Hirtus, or Opius's supplement of the Alexandriau, African, and Spanish War. With the Author's Life. Adorned with pters from the designs of the Famous plado. Made English from the Original Latin, by Capt. Martain Blden. The 2d. Edition, 8vo. With Ntes, and a Comparison between the Antient and Modern Geography. Both printed for Charles Smith , at the Buck between the two Temple gates in Fleetstreet and Edmund Curl at the peacock without Templebar .

AT the Golden Acorn in White Fryars, Fronting Fleet-Street, London are lately come in above a 1000 Vols of Tracts, which was Collected by a Person of great eminency and worth and will be Sold at the Rates mention'd in the Post Boy, Note, these following Pamphlets may be had viz. Naked Gospel Naked Truth, Cobler of Gloster, killing no Murder, Absolum and Athitophel Religio Laiti Table o Love &c, with Acts of Parlament Proclamations Declarations &c. according to the method of William Millersale of London Stationer .

LONDON : Printed by by Dryden Leach in Dogwel Court in White Fryars. were Advertisements are taken in,

