The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at TYBURN on Wednesday the 18th Day of JULY, 1711.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 4th, 5th, and 6th instant, Six Persons, who were Try'd for, and found Guilty of, several Capital Crimes, received Sentence of Death, and another (that was Condemn'd the Sessions before, and Repriev'd to this) was call'd to his former Judgment, the time of his Reprieve being fully expir'd. Of all these Malefactors, Five being respited from, Two only are order'd for, Execution.

While they were under this Condemnation, I visited them constantly, and read Prayers and the Word of GOD, and expounded it to them twice every day publickly in the Chapel, where I had them brought up for that purpose.

And on the LORD's DAY, the 8th instant, I preach'd to them, and others then present, both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, upon part of one of the Psalms for that Morning-Service, viz. Psal. 39th. Verse 12. Hear my Prayer, O Lord, and give Ear unto my Cry; hold not Thy Peace at my Tears: For I am a Stranger with Thee, and a Sojourner, as all my Fathers were.

Which Words (together with their Context) having first explained in general, I then proceeded to lay down, and inlarge upon, these Three Propositions in particular, resulting from them, viz.

I. That all the Sons and Daughters of Men are but Strangers and Travellers upon Earth, as David professes for himself, and all before him, in these Words of the Text; I am a Stranger with Thee, and a Sojourner, as all my Fathers were.

II. That from thence it follows, That this Life is transitory; That our Abode in this World is of no long Continuance; and therefore we ought to raise our Thoughts and our Desires, to that blessed Life which is to come, eternal in the Heavens.

III. and lastly, That the best Expedient for us to reach home to that glorious Place (which we should look upon as our Native Country) we are to make this present Life, a Life of Prayers and Tears, mourning for our Sins, and praying for Pardon and Grace.

On the last LORD's DAY, being the 15th instant, I preach'd again to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon these Words, taken out of the Epistle for the Day, viz. Rom. 6. 21. What Fruit had ye then in those Things, whereof ye are now ashamed? For the End of those Things is Death.

In my Explanation of which Words, I first observ'd what they refer to; and then endeavour'd to make my Auditory sensible of these important Truths, imply'd in them.

I. That the Sinner has but little (or rather, no real and solid) Profit and Satisfaction by his Sins, even while he is committing them, and delighting, and (as he foolishly fancies) enjoying himself in them.

II. That nothing but Shame and Sorrow follows upon, and is to be reaped from them.

III. That Death, yea, Eternal Death and Damnation (unless prevented by Grace and Repentance) will be the sad Catastrophe and Conclusion and Reward of them.

IV. That the Sinner's future Judgment after this Life, is certain and unavoidable.

V. and lastly; That that will be a most dreadful and terrible Judgment to those that shall not, in due time, have provided against it by a sincere Repentance of their Sins.

On these Heads I discoursed at large, and concluded all those my Discourses with particular Directions and suitable Admonitions to the Condemned, exhorting them to repent, and flee from the Wrath to come.

As I taught them in publick, so likewise in private, when I examin'd them singly, and received from them, who are now to suffer, the respective Accounts of their past vicious Lives, and present Dispositions, which follow.

1. Peter Cartwright , condemned the 18th of May last, and repriev'd to this Day. The Facts, for which he then received Sentence of Death, were two Robberies by him committed, the 6th day of February 1710-11, on Mr. Robert Sherwood and Mr. Joseph Ashton , upon the Queen's High-way near Hampstead . He said, he was about 30 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Giles's near Cripplegate , London : That he was brought up to the Sea, having been first a Servant to a Commander of one of Her Majesty's Men of War, and afterwards a Sailor , and as such served seven Years together on board the Bedford, and other Ships of the Royal-Navy, and was once in the Office of Quarter-master on board the Exeter, a 4th Rate: That tho' he could not charge himself with being much addicted to common Swearing and excessive Drinking, yet he had otherwise greatly offended God: That besides the Robberies, which he own'd he now stood justly condemn'd for, he was guilty of several others, for which he ask'd Pardon of God, and of the Persons he had wrong'd; wishing it were in his power to make full Restitution and Satisfaction to all. Upon my telling him, That for the clearing of his Conscience, and obtaining the Divine Mercy, he must take great care (among other things) to make such Discoveries, as he was able to make, which might be useful either to the Publick, or to Private Persons; He promis'd me, That he would do it: And so he did in some measure; but I am afraid he was too much reserved in that matter, though I cannot positively say he was so. But this I will say here, for the Instruction of other Malefactors, who may desire to repent and be sav'd; That when Men truly repent, and entirely forsake their Sins, they are not found to be backward in becoming Instruments of doing good to honest Men, and preventing Mischiefs to be done (for the future) by such as are otherwise; who by means of their Discoveries of them in due time, may be made apprehensive of the absolute Necessity of quitting their ill Courses; or else be restrained from them, and driven to leave them off. This I endeavour'd to make him sensible of, that he might not think it was enough for him to confess in general, that he had been a great Sinner (which was already so well known;) or in particular, That he had committed such and such Facts; but that he was also to give, as exactly as he could, a just and true Information of what he knew might prove serviceable to Persons injur'd; either by helping them to their lost Goods again, or removing those Jealousies and Suspicions they might entertain concerning Servants, Neighbours, or others, that might be innocent. I left this to his Consideration; and he had a long time allow'd him to improve it. He being put in mind of former Faults, did acknowledg this to be true, viz. That before this time he was justly condemn'd to die for a Felony and Burglary, by him committed in the House of Mr. Tho. Allison : It

was on the 8th day of February 1708-9; for which Fact, having receiv'd Sentence of Death on the 6th day of May following, he then obtain'd a Reprieve, and afterwards a Pardon: Upon which he was listed into the Queen's Service ; but soon after deserted it. I asking him, How he could abuse such Mercy, and so easily break the good Resolutions, which (I supposed) he had made when under that Condemnation; He plainly told me, That at that time being in good hopes that he should escape Death, as he then did, he had no serious Thoughts of another World, or of reforming himself in this; which made him (as soon as Opportunity served) return to his old Follies again, and thereby involve himself in new Trouble; which now he became truly sensible wits the due Reward of his repeated and presumptuous Sins; and he thanked God for his having given him an Insight into this, and so far alter'd and chang'd his Mind, as that he now perfectly abhorr'd all his former wicked Deeds, and would not repeat them again, though he had never so much Liberty or Opportunity and Encouragement for it. He confess'd, That his Profanation of the Lord's Day had been the first Cause of his Ruin: And therefore, out of Good-will to other profane and loose Livers (whose timely and happy Reformation he heartily wish'd) he warned them against that Sin especially, which (by his woful Experience) he had found to be the root of many others; desiring, that they would so consider it, as not to suffer themselves to be drawn away, as he had been, and shamefully fall by the Hand of Justice, as he now did deservedly. He declar'd, that he dy'd in Charity with all Men, even with the Person who was the Cause of this his sad End, both by his enticing him into those Robberies, for which he dies, and by his turning an Evidence against him therein; praying God that he might not (by returning to his old wicked Ways) bring himself at last to the same Judgment he had brought others to; and that all others (young Men especially) might be wiser and more watchful than himself had been, to prevent their being deluded, as he was. He very earnestly desired my Prayers, and my Directions, which he had, for his Soul's good: And now seeing, that he must dye indeed, after the Hopes of Life which his long Reprieve had made him entertain, he patiently and contentedly (as far as outwardly appear'd) resigned up himself to the Providence of God, who had thus measured his Time, and cut it short, for his Sins.

2. Margaret Lane , condemn'd for stripping a young Female Child of her wearing Apparel, and leaving her naked in the Fields, on the 18th of May last; and for having assaulted and robb'd another young Female Child of 12 years of Age, whom she offer'd to stab with a Penknife, and took from her a pair of Gold Ear-Rings, upon the Queen's Highway, the 7th day of the same Month. She confess'd, she was Guilty of both Facts; only deny'd her having then any Penknife, or offering to stab the Girl, whom she robb'd of her Ear-Rings; saying, she had only a bit of May in her Hand. Being ask'd, how she could be so barbarous, to do such wicked things, she answer'd, Another Woman that was then with her, put her on, and assisted her in the commission of them, and afterwards went with her to a Goldsmith, where they sold those Ear-Rings, for which they had 4 s. which they parted between them two: And as for the Cloaths of the other Child they being found upon her when she was apprehended, they were restored to the Parents of that Child that was thus stript and left naked in the Fields. This Margaret Lane said, she was about 19 Years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Margaret , Westminster : That her Employment was to sew and mend old Cloaths , while in Town; but when (as she often was) in the Country with an Unkle of hers, at Bramyard in Herefordshire , she needed not to work, for her Unkle then maintain'd her, and also gave her some Mony at her last coming from him, which was about Easter last: That when this Money was all spent, and she could neither find any Service, nor maintain herself by her Needle-work, she was induced by that wicked Woman before mention'd to take an ill Course of Life to supply her Wants, which nevertheless grew greater and greater upon her; so that she lived not only a Wicked, but a Miserable Life; as it often falls out, that these two go together. I found her very simple and ignorant, she not being able so much as to read in the Bible; yet she was desirous to receive Instruction, and was made sensible of the heinousness of those her Crimes, that were inhumane, barbarous, and cruel, to a very high degree; which she acknowledg'd (with Tears) to be so, and pray'd, that GOD would please to pardon both these heinous Facts she was condemn'd for, and all other the Sins she had been guilty of, as Whoredom, Idleness, Profanation of the Lords Day, Neglect of Christian Duties, both Publick and Private, and many other great Defects, which were very grievous to her, who did now perceive and feel, that the Wrath of GOD was due to them.

This day they were carry'd, from Newgate (in a Cart) to the Place of Execution; where having discharg'd my last Duty to them, by Exhortations, Prayers, Singing of Penitential Psalms, &c. and finally recommended their departing Souls to the Mercies of our Good and Gracious GOD; I left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allotted them. Then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off; crying at the same time upon God and our Saviour to pardon their Sins, and save their Souls, in these and the like Ejaculations: viz. Peter Cartwright , (for after I retir'd, I could not hear the Woman's Voice, 'twas so low) Lord, have mercy upon me! Lord, I fly to Thee for Succour; Lord, help me! Lord, open to me the Gates of Heaven! Lord Jesus, I come, I come, receive my Soul. With these he also repeated the Lord's Prayer very devoutly, and afterwards gave me a Paper, wherein he declares, (as he did by Word of Mouth to the Spectators) That his poor Wife was so far from being concern'd in any of his ill Actions, that she always advis'd him to the contrary; and had he taken her Counsel, he had prevented this his shameful End. He further said, He knew many there present, pray'd for them all, and desir'd them to take Warning by him.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Malefactors, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Wednesday, July 18. 1711.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , who formerly lived at the Bible in Creed-Lane , is removed to the Bible and Ball in Ave-Mary-Lane near Ludgate , where all Booksellers and others may be furnisht with Bibles and Common-Prayers of all Sorts, with Cuts or without, Ruled or Unruled, Bound in Turky Leather or Plain. Mr. Sturt's Cuts Curiously Engrav'd; also other fine Cuts fitted for all Sizes and Common-Prayers. The Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. The Duty of Man in Latin. Latin and French Common-Prayers. Tate and Brady's New Version of Psalms, with the New Supplement. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Statutes at large, in Three Volumes. Washington and Wingate's Abridgment of them. The Lord Clarendon's History of the Rebellion, in Folio and Octavo. The New Translation of AEsops Fables. Also Bp. Beveridge's Works, in 5 vol. And Dean Stanhope on the Epistles and Gospels, in 4 vol. All which Books and Cuts are likewise sold by J. Baker in Mercers-Chapel

This Day is Publish'd,

The Fourth Volume of the Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , which Compleats the whole Sett, where likewise may be had the 3d Edition of the 3 other Volumes, with a large Supplement, great Part thereof never before Printed: All Corrected with large Additions, and Tables to each Vol. With the Life and Character of Mr. Brown, and his Writings, written by Dr . James Drake . Printed for S. Briscoe, and sold by J. Graves in St. James's-street, J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall, and J. Woodward in Scalding-Alley against Stocks market. Where may be had a new Translation of the Works of Petronius Arbiter, in 3 Parts. With the Life of the Author. Written by Mons. St. Evremont, and a Key to the Work. Adorn'd with Cuts.

A Table Calculated by. Mr. Tho. Fletcher , to shew the Interest on Exchequer Bills and Bank Seal'd Bills, at 2 d. per Diem by Inspection. Enter'd in the Hall Book, pursuant to Act of Parliament. Price 6 d. Sold by J. Morphew.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-Hall.

