THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and last dying Words of the Two Malefactors, who were Executed at Tyburn, on Monday the 3d of February, 1723.

AT the KING'S Commission of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, &c. held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , before the Right Honourable Sir Peter Delme , Knt . Lord Mayor , Mr. Justice Fortescue Aland , John Raby , Esq ; Deputy-Recorder , and several of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace, (which Commission was opened on Friday the 17th of January last) five Men were found Guilty of Capital Offences, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

While these unhappy Persons (viz. Stephen Gardiner , Joseph Hyde , John Allen John Bonner , and Thomas Johnson ,) lay under Condemnation, they labour'd both Day and Night, by their Devotions to attone for their Offences; especially Gardiner, and Allen, when they had dropt all Expectations of Life, finding themselves included in the Warrant for Execution. They carefully perused the Sermons in the Book of Homilies which relate to Repentance, and to Fasting. And the Tuesday preceeding their Deaths, they all resolved to abstain from eating and drinking to humble themselves before God, and to punish their Bodies; which accordingly they did. As the Day of their Deaths approach'd, they shorten'd the Nights, and spent the greatest Part of 'em in reading, and hearing the Homilies read to 'em. Yet the nearer the Time drew, the less concern'd they appear'd; and they were very willing to compensate for their Crimes with their Blood, and to leave this troublesome World, for a better Hope.

On Sunday the 2d of this Instant February, I endeavour'd to instruct them from the following Words.

As Righteousness tendeth to Life; so he that pursueth Evil, pursueth it to his own Death. Prov. 11. Ver. 19.

FIRST, Was consider'd from the Words, the Quiet and Serenity that is lodged in Righteousness; where is no Dread of being seiz'd and drag'd to Justice and an untimely Death; no suspicion of all Men as of Enemies; no Distempers, occasion'd by Debauchery, Riot and Excess; no dangerous

and destructive Downfalls, occasion'd by ambitious Pride: But, on the contrary, a Security from the Law; a healthful Body and Mind; not liable to Fall, or be ruin'd by the Caprices of any Men, &c.

SECONDLY, Was consider'd the Tendency of Righteousness to a better Life above: As the great Creator has promised Felicity only as the Reward of Righteousness; and as the New Testament enjoyns Morality; Be not deceived; God is not mocked; for whatever a Man soweth, that shall he also reap: For he that soweth to his Flesh, shall of the Flesh reap Corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit, shall of the Spirit reap Life everlasting. Galat. 6. Ver. 7, 8. Now the Works of the Flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, Fornication, Uncleanness, Lasciviousness, Idolatry, Witchcraft, Hatred, Variance, Emulations, Wrath, Strife, Seditions, Heresies, Envyings, Murders, Drunkenness, Revellings, and such like. But the Fruit of the Spirit is Love, Joy, Peace, Long-suffering, Goodness, Faith, Meekness, Temperance: Against such there is no Law, &c.

THIRDLY, Was consider'd, the natural Tendency that Sin has to Misery, and to Death, with Regard to this Life: Bringing Bonds Imprisonments, and an ignominious End, unless the undeserved Clemency of Superiors should interpose, and save a guilty Life, which generally proves to be rescued from Fate, to pursue again its accustomed Vices, and to return again to the same Misfortunes more loaded with Guilt and the Frowns of God. Can the Ethiopian change his Skin, or the Leopard its Spots? Then also may you, who are accustom'd to do Evil, learn to do well.

FOURTHLY, Was observ'd, that the natural Tendency of Vice, is to an eternal Death; As the Wages of Sin is Death, tho' the Gift of God is eternal Life. As God has form'd this Earth, a Place, design'd to be regular, harmonious, social, commercial, &c. Providence certainly will support that regular Harmony, that Commerce and Society, which Providence at first introduced among Men, by making Society necessary for their Subsistance and Comfort, and by turning their Minds to a Love of it, and to a Detestation of entire Solitude. Wherefore the Subverters of Regularity, Robbers, Thieves, and Plunderers, as they incur the Displeasure of the Creator, must expect his Vengeance, &c.

FIFTHLY, If a temporal Death is the plain and natural Consequence of Unrighteousness, they who suffer such a Death ought not to accuse their Accusers, or have Resentment against any one; but ought to humble themselves before God and Man; acknowledge their Offences, and take the Shame upon themselves; give Advice to their Companions to take Advice by their sad Fortunes, and break off the Course of their Vices: They ought to reflect what Crimes they have committed, and divulge them to the World, lest innocent Men should be suspected of what they committed, and also to recover, if possible, lost Goods for the right Owners of them. They ought to dye in Charity; relying on the Mercies of God, and the Merits of Christ.

The Account of these Malefactors when under the Conviction of the Law.

1. STEPHEN GARDINER , was indicted for breaking the House of Dorcas Roberts , in the Night-Time, and stealing a large Quantity of

Linnen, to the Value of 25 l. on the 6th of January last. The Prisoner being apprehended in Bed, with a very fine Shirt upon him, and the other Linnen all found beneath the Bed, except a Shirt and two Shifts, (which the Prisoner affirm'd were given by him to John Martin , for concealing him and his stol'n Goods in his Brandy-Shop till the Watch broke up.) The Jury found him Guilty of the Indictment.

This Prisoner's Parents, who at the Time of his Birth lived in Moorfields , put him, when about 14 Years of Age, Apprentice to a Weaver : But, it seems, he play'd some Tricks, not pleasing to the Neighbourhood, or to his Master; Then, upon some Persons using him severely, he ran away from his Master, and wander'd about in a lewd and loose Way, imagining he could easily have maintain'd himself: But being, after a while, very much pinch'd with several Misfortunes, Accidents, and Disasters, he perceiv'd there was no Method but to return to his Friends. They gave him Advice to go constantly to Church each Sunday, to avoid all lewd Boys Company, to learn to Work, &c. They afterwards put him in a Corn-Vessel , and he went to and fro, to Holland , to France , &c. But he complain'd that he could not bear the rude Behaviour of the Sailors; their swearing, quarrelling, fighting, &c. made him believe he should, in a little Time, be murder'd among them; as he was very young, and neither strong nor robust enough to encounter them.

He said, that he then resolved to lead a Life sober and regular, if his Friends would suffer him to continue in England . But after his Friends had agreed, and put him to a Waterman , he soon grew weary of that Confinement too, and nothing could satisfie him, but entire Liberty and disolute Freedom. So that, after he had watch'd his Opportunity, he ran from thence too. He then employ'd himself in Gaming about Moorfields , Playing at Cards, Skettles, &c. while his Money lasted; and when he was destitute of Money and Cloths, either attempted to Pick-Pockets, or had recourse to the Boys; and Playing with them for Farthings, recruited himself that way. He was seiz'd by a Man in Guild-Hall as the State Lottery was Drawing, who observ'd him taking a Wig out of his Pocket, but took no Notice, till the Boy was possest of it; but the Boy immediately dropt it, and pretended Innocence; a Gentleman then standing his Friend, he got clear: But about a Month after, he was seiz'd, and deliver'd up to the Mob; who severely handled him, and almost deprived him of Life, tho' he said he frequently beg'd 'em on his Knees, to take the Law of him by carrying him before a Justice of the Peace.

After this he forsook the Custom of Pocket-Picking; but having been acquainted with two Men, whose Names were Garraway and Sly, they propos'd to him to accompany them in their Night-Rambles: He said he refus'd to hear 'em; till he happen'd to play at Cards at an Ale-house in Moorfields , till his Money was gone, and after that all his Cloths: He then sought for Sly and Garraway, who gladly embrac'd him; and Garraway told him, their first Expedition should be against the said Garraway's Brother. Going to his House in the Night-time, they broke it open; but found only some of the Wife's Cloths, and a Coat or two of his Brother's. Garraway telling 'em, that his Father's House would afford 'em Goods of very great value, they attempted that, and succeeded to their Expectation; For they found several Peices of Plate; as Spoons, a Tankard, Salts, &c. But search being made for the Offenders, they were all Three apprehended; Stephen Gardiner

being the Youngest, was made Evidence against the others, when they were try'd at the Sessions-House, at the Old-Baily , and convicted of the Felony.

This happening about Easter, 1723; a little after Whitsuntide, Gardier obtain'd his Liberty; but was so unfortunate as not to learn from the Miseries he had beheld in a Prison, to fly those Actions that lead thereto. For he committed another Robbery soon after, by slipping into the Father's House of one of his Acquaintance (as he call'd him) who liv'd on Addle-Hill , where he went up to the Garret, and twisted off the Padlock that was on the Door, and stole thence some Mens wearing Apparel, which he carry'd off without being discover'd or suspected.

He said that above a Year ago, when he marryed a Woman about Forty Years of Age, several of the Neighbours prophesy'd he would die at Tyburn . But he thought himself very Fortunate, he said, in having wedded a Person who show'd him large Sums of Money, &c. tho' he knew nothing of her, till just the Day he marryed her. They being both charg'd with a Constable by their Landlord where they lodg'd in Fleet-Lane , and sent to St. Sepulchre's Watch-House , the Constable pittying him, dismist him, but told him he must beware, for that Bellman who stood by would certainly say the Verses over him, &c. The words he said struck to his Heart; But yet, he had the Misfortune not to take any good Advice, which proved at last the Cause of his great Sorrow, Uneasiness and Remorse.

It was in the beginning of the last Spring, that he met with Mr. Rice Jones , and being mounted on a strong Horse, accompanyed him into Wales. He went upon the Passing-Lay (as I think he call'd it) which he said was to draw Countrymen into Publick Houses, by pretending to want Cattle; and then to Spy a Pack of Cards (laid designedly there) and begin to Play with his Companion, appearing as a Stranger, and to borrow Money of the Countryman to win a Wager, which 'twas impossible for him not to win; then to go out with the Countryman, and find an opportunity of getting from him. With the abovemention'd Gentleman Stephen Gardiner travelling, they call'd at Bristol , where the Gentleman took a Gold Watch and Chain, (having parted with his Wife) besides Suits of Lac'd Cloths, and a Nag, which he had before left at his Lodgings at Bristol; and then they proceeded to the Bath, and spent sometime there. Gardiner said he hop'd God would forgive him, for designing to Murther the above Gentleman, partly for Lucre of above 100 Guineas he had about him; and partly because he had struck him with a Hedge-Stake, and abused him, because his Horse would not go fast enough, nor equal to his, which could travel 80 Miles in a Day. Gardiner to effect his Design, stole a Pestel at an Inn; and carry'd it two Days in his Boot: As he rid behind his Companion thro' a Wood, he attempted twice to strike out his Brains, but relented, and drew back his Hand; Afterwards the Pestel dropt twice out of his Boot, and he thinking, the second time it was God's Providence, and that he should be himself kill'd in the attempt, forsook his Design of Murther, and rid from his Companion, who told Gardiner, as they parted, he was going to London to be hang'd.

Between Abervenny and Monmouth , being alone, he said he open'd a Casement and broke some Wooden Bars, and got into a single House, having first knock'd a Quarter of an Hour to see if any Person was at Home: He took only a Gown; but saw two Boxes of Writings, and a great Quantity of Cloths, which, as he was travelling, he did not load himself with, but id forward to London .

This unfortunate young Man was remarkably observant of his Duty; he was never easy, nor would let the others be so, but when they were reading or praying. He was commonly bewailing his sad Condition, especially when his Friends and Acquaintance went to see him. He employ'd himself in perusing the Psalms, particularly in learning the 51. The Morning he died, he, with many Tears, received the Sacrament, and resign'd himself up to the Will of Providence.

JOHN ALLEN , of St. Martin's in the Fields , was indicted for robbing W. Wasey on the Highway, on the 20th of December last, and taking from him a Gold Watch, a Sword, a Tweezer Case, besides Money: It appearing that the Prisoner, with Frazier and Bunworth, lapping a Pistol to Mr. Wasey's Head, as he pass'd along Leicester-Fields , about Twelve o'Clock at Night, and threatening to shoot him if he spoke, robb'd him of the Particulars mention'd in the Indictment. The Jury brought him in Guilty of a Robbery on the Highway.

This Malefactor was about 28 Years of Age, most of which Time he had spent without much Virtue, or Regularity in his Way of Living. But, he said, he beg'd Pardon of God for having frequently pick'd Pockets as Prisoners were going to suffer for their Offences, and also at the Place of Execution. He said, that when the People call'd Blacks suffer'd at Tyburn, he was with Frazier and Bunworth at a Publick-House in a Court near Newgate , where Pistols were pull'd out, and Proposals made, such as, he said, would never have enter'd into his Imagination. Afterwards they made an Appointment, and met by Great Queen street ; where meeting a Gentleman, about One o'Clock in the Morning, his two Companions attack'd him, and requir'd his Money. This Prisoner pretended that he then ran away, and that his two Companions running after him, they took only the Chain of a Watch, and a Trifle besides. He mention'd two other Robberies, committed that Week; but they acquir'd nothing of Value. He added, that they then made an Agreement to fee, if possible, some Watchmen, to connive at their Practices, and assist them therein; but they did not succeed in their Intentions. The last Attempt that he took Notice of, was made upon a Man who was carrying a Bundle, about Midnight, thro' an Alley between Leicester-Fields and Piccadilly : A Watchman standing there, one of them pull'd out a Pistol before him, and commanded him to be silent; he was so; but the Man refusing to deliver his Parcel, though threaten'd with Death, they left the Place, and fled. He denied that ever he acquired any large Sum by his ill Practices: He very much accused Frazier, pretending that he led him into

the vicious Course of Life he was engag'd in, and would have induced People to imagine that his own Disposition was naturally wholly Virtuous, and his Companion's wholly Vicious.

The Behaviour of these Prisoners at the Place of Execution.

THE two unfortunate Men, being carry'd in a Cart to Tyburn , were observ'd to be remarkably earnest in their Devotions, reading such Prayers as they they were directed to repeat, before they went to suffer Death. John Allen appear'd satisfy'd with his Lot, and said he valued not this World, but thought he had fully made his Peace with God, and desir'd rather to die than to have his Life extended for Slavery and Bondage; since he must one Day die, it was the Portion of every Man, and since he must appear before Christ's Judgment Seat, to render an Account, for all the most secret Actions of his Life. Stephen Gardiner , when he arriv'd at the Place where he was to attone with his Blood for his Faults, appear'd very Devout, in the most earnest Manner calling upon God and Christ. Before he went, he was desir'd by some of his Acquaintance to put something upon his Body, besides the thin Covering of his Shroud, in order to fence against the extream Cold which might perhaps so injure his Body, as to prevent the Fervency of his Prayers, and draw off his Thoughts from Heaven.

To that he reply'd, that as he had endured the Cold on Sunday and the Sunday Night, he was resolv'd not put on Clothing on his Body during the Time he should continue in this World; For he was of Opinion, that he could not too much punish and afflict his Body for the Crimes he had committed; he was of Opinion, that there must be an Attonement and Compensation for Vice, either in this Life, or in the next. When he was at the Place of Execution he spoke to the People, to assure 'em, That though some Malicious People had been pleas'd to accuse his Father and Mother, as if they knew of his Robbing the Laundress, he declared as a dying Man, that they were wholly Ignorant of it, nor did they own the Bag that the Linnen was put into: He than spoke to some of his Companions whom he saw there present, desiring them to take warning by his Calamitous Fate, and to fly from vicious Company, and return to a virtuous and sober Life, which was the only way to be happy in this World, as well as in the next.

This is all the Account that is given by me, T. PURNEY, Ordinary, and Chaplain.

ADVERTISEMENT.

TO prevent the Mischiefs and Abuses that are consequent to the Ignorance and Male-Practice of daring Qucks, and other unskilful Practitioners; A regular bred Surgeon and Man-Midwife, who has practised many Years in various Countries, and under several Governments, by Land and Sea, informs the Publick, That he has acquired a Method of curing the Veneral Disease, in all its Degrees, and with all its concomitant Attendants, so perfectly, certainly, and easily, as shall give no Interruption to Business, or Suspicion to Friends: Be not dismay'd, although given over by others as Incurable, because out of the reach of their shallow Capacities: Let your Condition be ever so bad, you may depend upon being restored to a sound and vigorous Hbit of Body, without the least Remains of any lurking Relicts, and that without any Alteration of Diet, or Confinement, even though you have been Salivated to no purpose, and with Medicines both pleasant and grateful to the Taste. He cures Cancers, and all scropholous Tumours or Ulcers, Leprosies, or Fistulas, without manual Operation; the King's Evil, in either Sex, any unnatural Obstructions, or too greet a Redundancy of Humours, which, though by some (for want of Understanding) is attributed to foul Conversation, yet often proceeds from an Alteration of Constitution in Women of advanced Age; the Green Sickness, with the Causes of it, remov'd; all which is done by a salubrious Method, which corrects the sharp vicious Humour in the Blood, without violent Purging or Vomiting, the common Drudgery of Practice. It would be endless to enumerate the many Cures perform'd upon Persons reduced to Skelitons by the Ignorance of some, and Inadvertency of others. In short, the unhappy Patient suffers for all. He gives his Advice in all Distempers incident to human Bodies with Candour, Judgment, and Honesty, every Morning till Eleven a-Clock, and from Two till Nine at Night, at the Golden-Heart in Crane Court, near Fetter Lane, in Fleet-street. A square Lamp at the Door.

LONDON : Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bridewell-Bridge , in Black-Fryers .

