THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 13th of January, 1741-2.

BEING THE FIRST EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Sir Robert Godschall , Knt .

Number I.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLI.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, (held before the Right Hon . DANIEL LAMBERT , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Lord Chief Justice LEE; the Hon. Mr. Baron REYNOLDS; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and Others, his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 14th, 15th, and 16th, of October, in the 13th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Joseph Allen , James Buquois , John Glew Gulliford , William Quaites , and Robert Ramsey , and one Woman, viz. Mary Page , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and sentenced to die. Also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon . Sir ROBERT GODSCHALL , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice CHAPPEL; the Hon. Mr. Baron ABNEY; the Hon. Mr. Baron REYNOLDS; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder, and Others, his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery, of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday, the 4th, 5th, 7th, and 8th of December, 1741, in the 15th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. John Newman , William Warner , John Dean , Dominick Fitzgerald , James Lee , Samuel Shuffle , and Joseph Lay cock , and four Women, viz. Esther Burnham , Mary Dutton , Ann Holland , and Margaret Watson , were by the Jury found guilty of capital Crimes, and sentenced to die.

While under Sentence, they were all very seriously exhorted to think upon their latter End, as they were in a short time to appear before the great God of Heaven and Earth,

who, as he is infinitely merciful to forgive the Sins of all true Penitents, so as a just God, he will render unto every one according to their Actions done in this World, whether good or bad, to them who by patient continuing in well-doing, wait for Glory and Honour and Immortality, he will hereafter grant eternal Life; but to the wicked and disobedient, who know not God, nor observe his Ways, he will pour forth his Wrath, even Fire and Brimstone. This will be the Portion of all unpenitent hardened Sinners, therefore they were seriously admonished, if they had any Regard for the eternal Welfare of their precious Souls, to repent unfeignedly of all their Sins, especially those very great ones for which they were now to suffer. And as the Apostle advises, to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and they should be saved; they were pathetically told how sinful, and how much it was against the positive Commands of Almighty God, to rob, to steal and pilfer from our Neighbour's; nay, that it was a breaking God's Commands, even to covet our Neighbour's Goods, much more was it so, to violently force them away; they were likewise reminded of their baptismal Vow, to remember how they had promised to deny all Ungodliness and worldly Lusts, and to live soberly, righteously and godly in this present World, and how little they had regarded that promise, by their committing such Irregularities.

They were likewise instructed in the Nature of the Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, and were taught, that by devoutly and worthily partaking thereof, with a sincere and hearty Repentance of their past sinful Lives, they would renew their baptismal Vows, become as new Creatures, and be entitled to the Grace and Mercy of an all-merciful, almighty God, who is ever ready to extend his Mercy to a truly penitent Sinner.

While such Instructions were given, they all attended in Chappel, excepting when some of them were sick, Mr. Ramsey never absented, but always behaved calmly, christianly and decently, as did James Buquois ; William Quaite was for some Days very sick, as was Joseph Allen ; when they recovered, they regularly attended and behaved as became Persons under their miserable Misfortunes; John Glew Culliford , was quiet and serious; Mary Page gave constant Attendance, and 'tis hoped, was truly penitent, though not quite so much affected as might have been wished; John Dean attended some Days in a decent Manner, 'till his Feet and Legs, through nakedness and cold, swelled so, that he was not able to walk, when visited, he was very desirous of Prayers and Instructions; Esther Burnham constantly attended in a devout Manner, so did Newman and Warner, Ann Lee , Samuel Shuffle , Joseph Laycock , and Mary Dutton .

Fitzgerald and Welch (who were of the Romish Persuasion ) generally attended the Service, and were quiet, except when some of their own Persuasion came incog. They were all glad of Prayers and Instructions, and behaved devoutly.

Thursday, January 17th, 1741-2, Report was made to his Majesty in Council of the sixteen Malefactors lying under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate ; when Mary Page , of St. Mildred in the Poultry , for stealing two Silk brocaded Gowns, a green Silk tabby Gown, a white dimity Gown, a long velvet Scarf, a Scarlet cloth Cloak, two Linnen laced Caps, a Linnen laced Handkerchief, three Silk Handkerchiefs, a Lawn Apron, a Child's Silk Cloak, a Silk short Apron, a Pair of white Cotton Stockings, a Pair of worsted Stockings, and two Guineas, the Goods of Rice Price , in his dwelling House, September 1.

William Quaite , of St. Martins in the Fields , for assaulting Richard Dance , in a certain open Place, called St. James's-Park , putting him in Fear, and taking from him, a Silver Watch, value 40 s. a Shagreen Case with Instruments, value 5 s. and 1 s. 10 d. in Money, September 7.

Esther Burnham , of St. Clement's Danes , for privately stealing a Silver Watch, value three Pound 4 Pieces of Foreign Gold, value 7 l. 4 s. 2 Moidores, and 9 Guineas, from

the Person of John Bowers , Nov. 30. And,

Ann Holland , alias Lee , for assaulting Martha Tapster , on the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a cloth Cloak, value 10 s. November 3, received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve.

The remaining Twelve, viz. Joseph Allen , James Buquois , John Glew Culliford , Robert Ramsey , John Newman , William Warner , Dominick Fitzgerald , James Lee , Mary Dutton , Samuel Shuffle , Joseph Laycock , and Margaret Watson , were ordered for Execution.

N. B. John Dean was capitally Convicted last Sessions.

John Dean , and John Flexmore , of Harrow , were indicted (with Robert Flexmore , not taken) for that they, after the 1st of May, 1741, viz. November 6, a Weather Sheep, value 10 s. the Property of Daniel Hawkins , feloniously and wilfully did kill, with Intent to steal the same, against the Form of the Statute, &c. Dean guilty Death, Flexmore acquitted.

John Dean , who was 35 Years of Age, born of mean Parents at Harrow on the Hill , he had little or no Education given him, his Parents Poverty preventing their paying constantly for his Schooling, so that what little he learnt was by starts, sometimes going a Day, sometimes a Week, as they could muster Money; he was put to no Trade, but when he became strong enough, he went to work, as his Father had done before him, to plough or reap, drive Carts or Waggons, or any Country Work the Farmers would employ him in , and generally behaved pretty well, no ways addicted to the flagrant Vices many such unfortunate People are. He confessed the Commission of the Crime he was convicted of, but little imagined, as he said, 'twas punishable with Death (nor indeed has it been a long a capital Crime, it being made so by an Act of Parliament passed but the very last Sessions) he owned, that through the Perswasions of Flexmore, he did, together with Flexmore and his Son, kill the Weather, and divide the Carcase, part of which was found in their several Habitations, and that they cut the Skin into several Pieces, and threw in a Cart-rut, where it was found by Dean's Direction and Confession to his Master, owner of the Weather; he declared himself to be innocent of any other Robbery. He had a Wife, by whom he had several Children, three of whom are now living, and the poor Woman lying in of another; he was very poor and miserable; nobody coming after him to lend him any Assistance, he became very sick and weak, and so lame in his Legs and Feet, as not to be able to stand, which by Degrees, turned to a Mortification, so that for several Nights he lay groaning and lamenting in a most dismal Manner, 'till about Two o'Clock in the Morning, on Fryday the 18th of December, he expired, seemingly Penitent for all the Sins of his Life.

John Glew Gulliford , alias Culliford, of St. Peter's, Cornhill , was indicted for stealing 18 Yards of red printed Handkerchiefs, value 18 s. fifteen Yards of Purple ditto, value 15 s. four Yards of printed Cotton, and seven Yards and a half of Holland, the Goods of Ambrose Harvey , in his Warehouse, August 29. And,

William Frankland , for receiving them, knowing them to be stolen.

Of this Indictment, Culliford was found guilty 4 s. 10 d. and Frankland guilty.

John Glew Culliford , was again indicted, for that he, at the Sessions of Jail-delivery, held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , before the Right Hon . Humphry Parsons , Esq ; &c. &c. with one Herbert Blackburn , was tried on an Indictment, for that they, in the Parish of St. Leonard, East-Cheap , November 5, 8 Pieces of Velvet lined with fine Ticken, made up for the Furniture of a Hearse and five Horses, in the dwelling House of William Hazledine , did steal, &c. and thereon by a certain Jury of the County, &c. in that Behalf taken, they were convicted of the stealing the said Goods, to the Value of 39 s. and were ordered for Transportation, &c. and for that he, the said Gulliford, on the 1st of September, was at large in

the Parish of St. Sepulchre , before the Expiration of the Term, for which he was ordered to be transported.

1. John Glew Gulliford , alias Culliford , was 28 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Town, who gave him good Education at School, to read, write and cast Accounts carefully, instructed him in the Principles of Christian Religion, and when he came of Age, his Father who was a Waterman, bound him Apprentice to himself , but being an ill-disposed Boy, he served his Father but a very short Time; getting into ill Company, he became vicious and was guilty of any Crimes he had an Opportunity of committing; he for some Time used the Sea , serving on board several Men of War, as well as Merchantmen, 'till renewing his Acquaintance with the vile Company in London he formerly was acquainted with, he was guilty of several Thefts and Robberies, for one, of which it appears by the above Indictment, he was in November Sessions, 1740, found guilty to the Value of 4 s. 10 d. and sentenced for Transportation, and was accordingly put on Board one of Mr. Reed's Transport Ships; the Sailors when the Ship lay off the Isle of Wight , falling Sick, and Culliford, with three or four others, being called up to work the Ship, he found means to get into the Pilot's Boat and come away; after which, not chusing to come directly to Town, he entered himself on Board a Tender, carrying press'd Men between the Tower and the Buoy of Nore ; but his Mind being wholly on Town, he came again to London , and associated with his old Companions, sometimes picking Pockets, at other Times Shop-lifting, and in short, committing any Crimes he was capable, or had an Opportunity of committing; he had no Regard from whom he stole, if he could but steal; he robb'd his Mother-in-law of all he could lay his Fingers on, and when nothing else was to be found, he even stole the Leads of the Windows, so much was he addicted to Thieying; he treated his own Sister in like Manner, pilfering old Pewter Spoons, or any other little Trifles he could find; while he was in Newgate , a Gentleman whose Pocket he had picked in St. Paul's Church-Yard , of a Gold Watch, coming to enquire after it, he informed him where it was pawn'd. While under Sentence, he behaved in general pretty well, though at first, he was somewhat indecent in his Expressions, and behaved unruly in Chappel by whisperings, making Motions and other Actions unbecoming one in his Circumstances; but being severely reprimanded, he became more Calm and Regular: His Father, who appears to be an honest old Man, coming twice out of his paternal Tenderness to see him while he was in Newgate , without I eave from his Superiors, was turned out of Greenwich-Hospital . He sold the Goods he stole from Mr. Harvey, to one Frankland, a Prisoner in Newgate, who was tried for receiving the same, and Frankland finding Mr. Harvey had got some Scent of the Matter, sent a Letter to inform him where his Goods were, and who was the Thief, which was the Occasion of Gulliford's being taken up, and for which Gulliford much reflected on Frankland; but being told he must Forgive as he expected Forgiveness, he became Calm, said he believed in Christ our only Saviour, that he repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

William Warner alias Goody Warner , and John Newman , of St. James's, Clerkenwell , were indicted for assaulting William Blackburn on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Silver Watch, Value 4 l. two Iron Keys, Value 2 d. a Quart Glass Bottle filled with Brandy, Value 1 s. and a Copper Pocket Piece, Value 1 d. and 5 s. in Money, Nov. 1.

2. John Newman was 28 Years of Age, born of honest Parents, tho' so poor as not to be able to give him any Education at all, his Father dying when he was but eight Years old.

His chief Employment when young, was attending Alehouses to draw Drink , by which Means having scrap'd up a little Money, and knowing as he said, that Service was no Inheritance, and thinking how he should be able to get his Living, when of Age he bound himself an Apprentice to a Bricklayer , with whom he honestly served out his Time, and afterwards worked as a Journeyman ; he married a Woman near Carnaby-Market , by whom he had several Children, one of which is now living, and his Wife big with another. He had been pretty much addicted to drinking and keeping bad Company, which brought him to this shameful End, he never was in any Goal in his Life till now, tho' he had been guilty of stealing Bread and Pieces of Flesh the last hard Winter, for the Support of his Family, when he was out of Business. No Body came to see him or help him while under Sentence, except his poor disconsolate Wife, to bring him some Necessaries, he was very poor and ignorant, wept much, professed Penitence, and made Vows of new Obedience; he own'd the Fact he died for, but reflected on the Evidence. He hoped for Salvation, by the Mercy of God in Christ, was penitent for a sinful Life, and died in Peace with all Men.

3. William Warner , alias Goody Warner , (which nick Name was given him by the Boys convicted for the same Robbery Newman, was but 18 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Newport-Market , his Father had him educated at School, to Read, Write, &c. he married a Woman who sold Fruit about the Play-house, she having committed some little Felony, was the Sessions before last cast for Transportation; he was a wicked, profligate young Fellow, too much addicted to Cursing, Swearing, Drinking, Whoring and Thieving, he as Newman did, reflected on the Evidence, profest his Faith in Christ, Repentance for his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

James Buquois and Joseph Allen , of Stoke Newington , were indicted for assaulting Charles Wells , in a certain Field or open Place, near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him an Iron Key, value 1 d. a Glass Ink Bottle cased with Brass, Value 6 d. and 2 s. 8 d. in Money, Sept. 8.

They were a second Time indicted for assaulting William Johnson on the King's Highway, in the Parish of St. Mary, Stratford, Bow , putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Silver Watch, value 3 l. a Glass Seal set in base Mettal, value 2 d. Sept. 7.

Allen was a third Time indicted for assaulting Edward Lee the younger , in a certain Field and open Place near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him 13 s. in Money, June 7.

The Prisoners on their Arraignment pleaded not Guilty, but being convicted on the former Indictment, desired Leave to retract their Plea, and accordingly pleaded Guilty to each.

4. James Buquois , 32 Years of Age, came of honest Parents in Spittlefields , who brought him up in Reading, Writing, Accompts, and the Principles of the Christian Religion. When of Age his Father (a Weaver) bound him Apprentice to himself , and he served out his Time honestly, and afterwards work'd as a Journeyman , married, and had several Children, one of which is now living. When the Weaving Business was slack, and he was out of Work, he wrought as a Labourer to the Bricklayers , till falling into bad Company, particularly into Joseph Allen 's, he was hurried apace to Destruction. Allen and he soon agreed to go upon the Highway, and accordingly provided themselves with Pistols, Powder, Ball, &c. and committed together a vast Number of Robberies. Buquois not only confest the three Robberies for which he was indicted, but likewise own'd the committing a great many more, upwards of one hundred. He was a malicious ill-natured, swearing Reprobate, gi

ven to ill Women as well as to drinking, he was so foolish, as his Father and others declared, that he would sometimes behave like a Lunatick, an Instance of which was his assigning over his Wife to his Companion Allen. He constantly attended Chappel, wept very much, and behaved very serious; he endeavoured to lay the Blame on Allen, as the Cause of his coming to this fatal End, as Allen did on him. He believed in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

5. Joseph Allen (convicted on the third Indictment with Bouquois as above) was 21 Years of Age, his Father who was a Weaver in Spittlefields , dying when Allen was but young, left him to the Care of his Mother, he was educated at School, and brought up to Religion. His Mother bound him Apprentice to a Weaver , with whom he serv'd Part of his Time, but being a disobedient, obstropulous Boy, taking to ill Courses. His Master at the Request of his Mother discharged him, after which he worked in several Places as a Journeyman , at other Times he did labouring Work to Bricklayers , where he became acquainted with Buquois, who enticed him as he says, to the Commission of such Facts, as in the End brought him to Destruction; but they mutually blamed each other, and both were bad. He was for some Days very sick and weak, and when I visited him in his Cell was very thankful, and desirous of Prayers and Instructions, but recovering, he regularly attended Chapel, and professed Penitence for a most wicked, vicious Life, that he believed in Christ our only Saviour, and died in Peace with all the World.

Robert Ramsey , of St. Andrews, Holborn , was indicted for stealing a pair of Silver Candlesticks, value 3 l. a pair of Silver Snuffers and Stand, value 30 s. a Silver Coffee-pot, value 6 l. and a Silver Sugar Castor, value 30 s. the Goods of Robert Glynn , in his Dwelling-House, Aug. 24.

He was again indicted for stealing 2 Silver Spoons, a pair of Silver Tea Tongs, a Silver Tea Spoon, a Silver Strainer, a Silver Tea Spoon double gilt, a Silver Tea Pot, and a Silver Cream Pot, the Goods of Thomas Griffith , in the House of John Harrison , in the Parish of St. George the Martyr , July 20.

On both which Indictments he was by the Evidence of his own Brother found Guilty.

6. Robert Ramsey was 27 Years of Age, came of reputable Parents near Grosvenor-Square , who gave him the best of Education at Westminster , and other Schools, where he learnt Latin, Greek, and such Accomplishments as were proper to fit him either for a Gentleman, or a Man of Business. His Father's Intent after he had given him a suitable Education, was thro' his Interest to have provided for him a Post, which should have set him above the Frowns or Contempts of the World; but dying when Robert was but 13 Years of Age, his Designs were frustrated, and young Ramsey was bound Apprentice to a Chymist and Apothecary , near Grosvenor-Square , with whom he faithfully served six Years and three Months. When his Master coming to Misfortunes, Mr. Ramsey hired himself as a Journeyman to a Chymist near Charing-Cross , where he lived some Time, gave Satisfaction, and was much respected, behaving like a Gentleman in every Part of Life, till falling into bad Company, he was led astray, and taught to do those Things which he ld too much Capacity for doing, and which at last brought him to this shameful End. He had an Opportunity of observing while he lived with his Master near Grosvenor-Square , the Carelesness of Servants leaving their Master's or Mistresses's Doors on the Jar, while they ran gossiping to a Chandler's Shop; so that it was an easy Matter to slip in and carry away Plate, or what else could be found, he was

for some Time concerned in counterfeiting Notes or Draughts, on eminent Banker, in one of which Exploits, he and two others were about two or three Years ago, found out, taken up and sent to Newgate , 'twas for counterfeiting a Draught for 70 l. upon Messrs. Hoar and Co. in Fleet-street . Ramsey was favoured so far as to be made an Evidence against his two Companions, one of whom was found Guilty, and a Special Verdict found for the other.

This Affair having entirely taken away what little Reputation Ramsey had left, he now gave himself up entirely to Thieving, and put in Practice what he had so often observed before, thro' the Carelesness of Servants might so easily be done. But wanting an Accomplice to keep a Look out at the Door while he went in for his Prey, he immediately thought on his own Brother, just then out of an Apprenticeship he had served to a Jeweller, whom he easily persuaded to turn out as he called it, and accordingly they committed together a great number of Robberies, as appear'd by the Confession his Brother made before Colonel Deveil; the chief of what they stole was Plate, which was disposed of sometimes by one Brother, sometimes by t'other, and sometimes by Mrs. Mary C -, who lived with them, and who was tried for receiving part of the Plate mentioned in the above Indictment and acquitted. He owned that he had been a wicked Youth, and that he most deservedly suffered for the Crimes he had committed. He regularly and constantly attended Chapel, declared himself a true Penitent, that he hoped in God's Mercy through Christ, and forgave all Men as he expected Forgiveness from God.

Samuel Shuffle and Joseph Laycock of Stepney , were indicted for assaulting James Gray , in a certain Field and open Place, near the King's Highway, putting him Fear, and taking from him a pair of Leather Shoes, a pair of Silver Buckles, and a Pocket-Book, Nov. 15.

7. Samues Shuffle 28 Years of Age, was born of honest tho' mean Parents in Shoreditch , who gave him Education at School, to read, write, and instructed him in the Christian Religion. When of Age they bound him Apprentice to a Velvet-Weaver in the Neighbourhood, with whom he served his Time honestly, and his Master as he said, when he came to visit him in the Cell, would have given him that Character had he been called upon at his Trial. He owned the robbing James Gray , but denied his being ever guilty of any other Robbery. He believed in Christ our only Saviour, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

8. Joseph Laycock , 25 Years of Age, was born in Bishopsgate-street ; his Father, who sold Fruit at a Tavern-door, gave him little or no Education, but employed him in running of Errands , or any such little Jobbs he had to do, 'till Joe thinking himself big enough, as well as old enough, to Trade for himself, purchased a Wheelbarrow, and went about the Streets selling Oranges , playing with Dice, by which Method he sometimes was a considerable Gainer, at other Times he was a broken Merchant, though his little Shop not requiring a very large Stock, was soon furnished again; when Oranges were not in Season, he sold Fish , and by such Methods, picked up a Livelyhood, if he could be content. About seven Years ago, he married a Lady of the Town, but she took little or no Notice of him; he was an irreligious, prophane Person, entirely ignorant of Christianity, scarce ever went in the or a Church; he confest the committing the Fact for which he died, and that it was done in the following Manner. He and Shuffle, and one John Stanley , were drinking at an Alehouse in Bishopsgate-street , where James Gray (a Country Gardner about Walthamstow ) was got pretty much fuddled, they observing him to have Silver Buckles in his Shoes, resolved to have them, and for that purpose pretended

they would convey him safe Home. Stanley led him, and Laycock knock'd him down with a Mopstick, and wounded him dangerously into the Skull; then they took from him his Buckles, his Shoes, and a Pocket-book, which Pocket-book was a material Evidence against them, for they had wrote in it, Knock'd down Sunday Night, &c. He said, 'twas the only Highway Robbery he ever committed, or was concerned in, though he had done some small Thefts: He declar'd hiis Faith in Christ, that he truly repented of all his Sins, and was in Peace with all Men.

Dominick Fitzgerald , and James Lee , alias Welsh , were indicted (with Elizabeth Fitzgerald , and James Delneene not taken) for that they, after the 24th of June, 1736, viz. Sept. 16, at St. Bennet, Paul's-Wharf , feloniously forged, and caused to be made and forged, a certain Paper Instrument, partly printed, partly written, sealed, purporting to be the last Will of Peter Perry , with a counterfeit Mark thereto, subscribed, pretended by them, to be the proper Hand-writing of the said Perry, and declared by him in the Name of John Perry , by Mistake, which said Paper or Instrument begins, In the Name of God, &c. here follows the latter Will, forged in the Name of Peter Perry , in favour of his beloved Sister Ann Perry , her Heirs and Assigns, whom he appoints sole Executrix of the said Will, &c. In witness whereof, he sets his Hand and Seal, March 28, 1737. signed below John Perry , his Mark declared in Presence of us, by the said John Perry , as, and for his last Will and Testament. sic subscrib. John Rogers , James Welch , with intent to do Fraud, &c. The Indictment further charges the Prisoners with publishing the said Will, knowing it to be forged and counterfeit.

9. Dominick Fitzgerald was near 50 Years of Age, born in the Kingdom of Ireland , and bred up a rigid Papist , had a pretty good Education, though not put to any Trade; being ready at Writing and Accompts, he was employed in several Families of Quality, chiefly as a Butler , and bore a good Character; about 22 Years ago he came to England , after staying here some time, he again returned to his native Country, where he continued about six Years longer, and then came to London again, and lodged by Rose-street , he did not absolutely deny the Forgery for which he died, but reflected on the Evidence's saying, he saw him sign Rogers; he owned he had been guilty of many Roguish Tricks; he hoped for Mercy from God, and died in the Romish Communion.

10. James Welsh , whose true Name was Lee , above 60 Years of Age, was born in Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him pretty good Education, in Reading, Writing and Accompts, and in the Christian Religion, according to the Romish Rites . He was put Apprentice to a Linnen-Draper , with whom he served out his Time honestly, married and had several Children, some of whom are now living; he dealt to and again from Ireland to England, and from England to Ireland , in buying and selling Linnen; he lived near Rose-street , Covent – Garden and contracted an Acquaintance with Fitzgerald; they were neither of them looked upon by the Neighbours to have the best of Characters, Welsh seemed to be a grave, cunning old Man, and talk'd smoothly, 'twas said, that both he and Fitzgerald were Persons who acted in the Capacity of Romish Priests ; but this they both solemnly denied; he owned himself to have been a great Sinner, and hoped for Mercy from God through Christ.

Margaret Watson and Elizabeth Dogget , alias Lions, of St. Giles's in the Fields , were indicted, Watson for privately stealing a Silver Watch, value 3 l. from the Person of William Head , and Dogget for receiving the same, knowing it be stolen, Oct. 3. Watson Guilty, Death, Dogget not Guilty.

11. Margaret Watson , 19 Years of Age, was born in Ireland of honest, mean Parents, her Father dying when she was but young, she was left to the Care of her Mother, who brought her up to School, and instructed her in Christian Principles, but she being a wild light headed Girl, of a disobedient Temper, and regarded no Instructions, but early began to follow the Men, and falling desperately in Love with a young Fellow, she followed him to London , where not having any other Way to support herself, she took to the Hundreds of Drury , and there continued till she was taken up for the Fact she was convicted of, which was done as follows; she went out of Doors in the Evening, and leaning on a Post in Drury-Lane , she began to cry and howl lamentably, Head coming by, and asking her what was the Matter? she replied, her Child had not had a Bit of Bread the whole Day; he offered her a Penny, which she refused, saying it would not make her drink, but if he pleased her Room was just by, he might go with her and see it, accordingly he went, and when he came there, she after a little Time being spent, demanded a Present, which he refusing to give, she knocked with her Heel, and one below crying out, Above! D - n you above! and at the same Time Head missing his Watch, he hurried down Stairs as fast as he could for Fear of being murdered. They were afterwards taken up, and Watson confessed she took the Watch and gave it to Dogget, who was to have 5 s. for pawning it. She owned herself a most notorious young Whore, plying in the Streets every Night, and that her common Practice was to pick Gentlemen's Pockets of Watches, Money, or what she could find, and succeeding so well as she had done, she determined to follow the same Practice, which she did till the Commission of the above Fact, which brought her to her End. She cried most bitterly, and made most solemn Vows if her Life was spar'd to become a new Creature, and was vastly afraid to die. She pretended to have been married, but afterwards owned she never was, but that she was a polluted, unclean, unwornthy Creature from her Childhood; the Day before her Execution she came to me, and with a Flood of Tears owned she had been a vile Sinner, and that her Conscience was greatly troubled for her Disobedience to her poor Mother, (who came frequently to visit her) I gave her such spiritual Comfort the Gospel affords, and instructed her in the Nature of the Sacrament she was to receive. She hoped for Salvation through the Mercy of God in Christ, sincerely repented of a most flagitious Life, and died in Peace with all the World.

Mary Dutton , alias Huntley , and Mary Bessier , were indicted for privately stealing a Silver Watch, value 30 s. a Steel Chain, value Six-pence, two Seals, value Two-pence, the Movement of a Watch, value 6 d. and a Cotton Hankerchief, value 3 d. from the Person of Daniel Rose , November 25.

12. Mary Dutton , alias Huntley , 25 Years of Age, was born of honest Parents in Town, who gave her a pretty good Education; she lived as a Servant in several good Plaes, and married a Sailor , who was killed, as she says, before Carthagena , in the Elizabeth Man of War; notwithstanding her being married, she was a common Street-Walker , and practised the Trade with Margaret Watson , of picking Pockets. She owned the taking of Daniel Rose 's Watch, &c. as mentioned in the Indictment, and said, though her Companion Bessier was acquitted, she was equally guilty; she came, most bitterly crying, with Margaret Watson , the Day before her Execution, begging my Prayers and Instructions; Mr. Ramsey was also present, full of Contrition for his past sinful Life. Dutton professed her Belief in Christ Jesus, as the Son of God, and only Saviour of Mankind, repented of a most profligate wicked Life, and forgave all Men, as she hoped Forgiveness from God.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

TUesday Afternoon, before they died, all of them, except Lee and Fitzgerald (who were Papists ) received the blessed Sacrament of the Lord's Supper in a very decent Manner, weeping and shedded Tears most plentifully, declaring themselves such Sinners, that they neither deserv'd, nor desired to live. In short, such a decent and quiet Behaviour I do not remember to have ever observed on the like Occasion. Wednesday Morning about nine o'Clock, after coming down from Chappel, they were put into four Carts, as follows.

In the first Cart, was,

James Buquois , and Joseph Allen , for robbing Mr. Johnson of a Silver Watch, and Joseph Laycock , for robbing Mr. Gray, on the King's Highway, of a Pair of silver Buckles and a Pocket-Book.

In the second Cart.

Dominick Fitzgerald , and James Lee , for Forging the Will of one Peter Perry , and Wm. Warner , for robbing one Mr. Blackburn on the King's Highway, of a silver Watch.

In the third Cart.

John Newman , concerned with the above William Warner , Samuel Shuffle , concerned with the above Joseph Laycock in the same Robbery, and John Glew Gulliford , for robbing Mr. Ambrose Harvey .

In the fourth Cart.

Mary Dutton , for privately stealing a silver Watch from Mr. Rose, Margaret Watson , for privately stealing a silver Watch from William Head , and Robert Ramsey , for stealing (in Company with his own Brother) a large Quantity of Plate belonging to one Mr. Glynn; the Corner of Hatton-Garden .

When arrived at the Place of Execution, they had nothing to add to their former Confessions, complied devoutly and fervently with the Prayers and singing Psalms, and went off the Stage crying out to God to have Mercy upon them, and the Lord Jesus to receive their Spirits.

Dominick Fitzgerald and James Lee , left a Paper which they desired might be inserted in the Dying Speech, to this Effect.

" Whereas, some Persons, either out of Ignorance or Malice, have reported, that " we the under-written are Priests of the " Roman Communion , we declare on the " Words of Dying-Men, without any " Equivocation, Restriction, or mental " Reservation, as it shall answer before " the Tribunal of that dreadful Judge " before whom we are soom to appear, " that we are mere Laicks, not having " any Orders in the Church, any Communication with the Bishop of Rome, " or in any Congregation whatsoever.

Witness our Hands,

Dom. Fitzgerald .

James Lee .

We under-written, testify the above-mention'd Persons to have signed this Declaration, in our Presence, and to have declared it, on the Words of Dying Men, to be the real Truth.

Henry Jones .

William Horn .

This is all the Account given by me.

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

The following Account John Gulliford gave of himself, a few Days before his Execution.

I AM now about 28 Years of Age, and was born in the Parish of St. Magnus , of reputable Parents, who were able to give me a tollerable Education, and who put me to a School which was left by Queen Ann, in St. Olave's-street , for the Children of such Persons as had been Seamen in her Wars.

Here I continued for three Years, and then frequently used to absent myself from School, and lye about Inn Yards, and ride the Horses there.

This I may say was my first Step towards the untimely Death I must now suffer, for at one of these Places I got acquainted with Thomas Bolton , or Boredon, and with him I made an Agreement to go out upon the Sneak, to take whatever we could lay hold off.

For two Years I pursued this Course of Life, before it came to my Father's Knowledge, and when he heard of it he kept me closely confined, and bound me Apprentice to himself. He then followed the Waterman's Business , but not finding that answer according to his Desire, he left that, and took to Velvet-weaving , and kept me close to that about half a Year. I being of a roving Disposition, could not bear the Thoughts of such Confinement, therefore was determined at all Events to make an Elopement.

In pursuance of this Resolution, I one Day got out of Window of the Room where I was lock'd up, by the help of a Sheet, and made the best of my Way to Gravesend , from thence I went to Chatham , where I shipp'd myself Lieutenant Auderson's Servant, on Board the Sterling-Castle, Captain Roser, by the Name of John Smith , but I did no go far in her, for as soon as we came to the Nore, I broke open the Boatswain's Chest, and took a Watch, a pair of Silver Bckles, a Stock Buckle, and two Rings, and then jump'd over Board, and came directly to London .

When I came to Town, my Father put me to St. Miles's School in Crooked-Lane , and afterwards turned me over to R – A - a Gravesend Waterman, and with him I have robbed several Ships in the River.

After I had serv'd my Time out, instead of following my Business as I might have done, I got acquainted with Jack Fosset , who has been executed, Jemmy Matthews , and one Taylor, and we all entered into an Agreement to go upon the River, and take any Thing we could get.

The first Thing we did in this Way was the robbing the Merry Billy of 3 Diamond Rings, 2 Tankards, a large Parcel of Cloaths, a Box of fine Linnen, and several Bundles, in one of which there was a young Child about 5 or 6 Weeks old. We handed it into the Boat, not imagining what it was, and when we laid other Things upon it, it began to cry, but however we row'd off with it, and afterwards when I told Matthews of it, we all agreed to go back, and put the Child in at the Cabbin Window, which we accordingly did.

After this one Jack Macdonnel and Pup's Nose were taken up, and made themselves Evidences against us, upon which I went a small Voyage, and when I came Home again, I thought every Thing was easy, but I was deceived, for I was soon taken, and sent to the New Goal upon their Information, where I lay till the Assizes were held at Kingston , when I had the Fortune to be discharg'd.

This Escape any reasonable Person would have thought sufficient to deter me from following my old Courses, but instead of forsaking my old Companions, I every Day enter'd into greater Intimacy with them.

The first Thing we did together after this, was robbing the Joseph and Ann of a great Box of Dutch Skillings, which if we had got the Worth of them, would have fetched 100 or 60 l. but we sold some at the Hollander-Arms , and the rest we melted down for the Silver, so that we got but a Trifle for them.

After this, I went out with Stephen Yates , and Jack Cook , and one Night we went to a Milliner's Shop, that was next to the great Toy-shop in St. Paul's Church-yard . When we had taken a Pannel out of the Shutters, I asked Cook if the Glaze would not jump, and he took hold of it, and it lifted up, upon which, he put his Head in, and somebody in the House push'd down the Sash; and caught him by the Head, and while he was thus confined, beat him over the Head with a Poker; but we broke the Frame of the Window and released him.

The next Morning we carried Cook to Dr. Green's; on the other Side of the Water, to have his Head dressed, and I seeing there was a large Parcel of Plate, told my Companions there was a Mark, and we agreed to have it. According, in the Dusk of the Evening, Cook and I went to the Back of the House, and brought off a Salver, a Tankard, eleven large Spoons, seven small Spoons, and several other Things, which we sold upon Tower-Hill , for 25 l. and divided the Money between us. We spent and Gamed best Part of the Money that Night, and the next Morning we went out with Yates, upon the Morning Sneak, and got some trifling Things from a Draper's Shop, within 3 or 4 Doors of the Place where we got this Plate.

I afterwards, in Company with Fosset and Taylor, robbed the Ann and Elizabeth, of a Parcel of Silk Stockings, which we sold at the same Place.

Then we went to Rochester , where we staid till the Ships were paying off, and went about the Town upon the Sharps, and got a pretty deal of Money; after which we agreed to come to London , and in Gravesend Road we stopped a Man on Horseback, with two Bags behind him, upon searching, we found eleven Guineas in the Corner of one of them, which we took from him, and dismissed him.

From thence we went to Gray's , where we broke open a Linnen-draper's Shop, and took about 5 l. in Money, and about 9 or 10 Ells of holland, and then came to London .

After this, I went out with little Dick Rice , Jack Page , and John Chest , who were tried for stealing some Diamond Rings from Mr. Manner's in the Strand ; and with them I committed several Robberies in this Manner.

We used to dress up the least in a Silver lac'd Hat, and give him Bread and Butter in his Hand, as if he was going to School, and he would stand at the Shew-glass, and take off the Hinges, and take whatever he could find, and we always were at Hand to receive them from him.

In this Manner we went on 'till Charles Cross was taken and admitted an Evidence against Smith, Chest, and myself.

I thought it safest for me to get out of the Way, and so I entered on board the Johanna , but I ran away from her, and shipp'd myself on board the Elphin , for Oporto, and while I was there, I stole a Parcel of Plate out of a Sanctuary, which (after I had buried it three Weeks) I brought to London , and sold it for eighteen Pounds.

When I came to London , I went out with Jack Cook , Tom Barnes , and Tom the Sailor, and with them, one Evening, we went to the back Lane in St. George's-Fields , with Intent to rob any Person we met, but the first we attacked, was a Gentleman on Horseback, who making some Resistance, we made off.

I afterwards work'd with my Master near half a Year, and never attempted any Thing farther than robbing Ships along with him, 'till I met with Tom Barnes , and Tom the Sailor again, with whom I followed my old Practices, the Consequence of which, was, that I was taken and carried to Kingston Assizes , but was

acquitted, as I likewise was soon afterwards at the Old-Baily , for stealing a Firkin of Butter from Dice-Key , but there being a Mistake in the Indictment, I was acquitted there likewise.

Tom Barnes , Tom the Sailor, and I, after this, robbed a Pedlar at Blackheath-Fair of his Pack.

For this Fact I was apprehended and try'd at Maidstone Assizes , where I received Sentence of Death, and was ordered for Execution, but just as I got into the Cart, I receiv'd a Pardon. There were two other Persons that received Reprieves with me, Gilbert Langley and Mr. Hill, who both died in their Passage to Virginia . About 9 or 10 Days after I had received this Pardon, some of my Friends came down to bail me, and I was discharged, but before I could plead to my Pardon, I was taken up for robbing Mr. Coleman a Dyer at the Bank Side of a great Quantity of Serge, which I sold to Frankland, but no Evidence appearing against me I was acquitted, and before I was discharge I enlisted myself a Marine , and accordingly was put on Board the Victory at Portsmouth , from whence (after robbing some of the Seamen) I made my Escape, and went on Board the Princess Mary, in which Ship I came to London .

When I came to London I met Tom Barnes again, and with him I robb'd a House at Black-Heath of a Box full of valuable Goods, such as Watches, Rings, &c. and sold them all to Jenny-Johnson in Rag-Fair , except one Watch which I sent to pawn in Bridewell-Alley , Southwark , and was detected, but upon one of my Friend's swearing he saw me buy the Watch I was discharg'd, upon Condition that I should enter on Board a Man of War. I consented in order to get my Liberty, and accordingly was carried on Board the Deptford Store Ship , where I met with a Man that had been to Sea with me before, I found he had got Money, upon which another Fellow and I agreed to rob him, and as soon as we had effected it, we jump'd over Board, but the other Man was drown'd before he could reach the Shore.

When I came Home, Barnes and I got into a House upon Black-Heath , where we found only a Cherry Pye, Part of which we eat there, and the rest we took with us, after having bound the Man of the House and his Wife to the Bedstead. When we were coming away, a Woman called out at the Garret Window after us, which Barnes so highly resented that he went back again, and ty'd her and threw her upon a large Wood Fire.

After this I got acquainted with Christopher Proctor , with whom I continually lived upon the Plunder, till I was detected in stealing a large Quantity of Broad Cloth from Mr. Bestey, for which I was try'd and convicted for Transportation.

In Consequence of this Sentence I was sent to Brady's Church Baphanock River , Maryland , where I was sold to a Widow, one Elizabeth Braburn for 1600 Wt. of Tobacco clear of Wood, and she took me Home with her. While I was with her, she used me more like a Friend than a Servant, and allowed me more Liberties than I ever could have expected; but I imagin'd without the least Reason, that I should be over work'd for the Civilities I had receiv'd, and so I resolv'd to leave her.

The Night I put my Design in Execution, I was sitting by her Bed Side, as I frequently used to do, and a Person that courted her happen'd to come in, and seem'd extreamly angry at seeing me in that Posture; he spoke two or three Words and then went away, and my Mistress then desiring me to go to Bed, I took that Opportunity and got one of her Horses, and rode down to Sustano Port , the Bottom of Sustano River , where I went on Board the Vernon, Capt. Lee, in which Ship I came to Yarmouth , where I robb'd a House of a Watch and a Silver 3 Pint Mug, and I pawn'd the Watch at the C - s K - s in Gracechurch-street , to pay my Coach Hire, and there I believe it is to this Day.

After this, on the 5th of Nov. between 4 and 5 in the Afternoon, I was coming along Eastcheap with Jorabba or Herbert Blackburne , and saw Mr. Hazledine's Window open. I got into the Church-yard, and took some Pieces of Velvet out of the Window, and we carried them to Betty Barfoot 's in Rag-Fair , but she refusing to buy them, we took them to one H-'s Wife, and while we were agreeing for Price, she slipp'd 2 Pieces under her Petticoats, I took one Piece from her, thinking she had got no more, and then we sold them to another Person for 14 l. For this Fact we were taken and carried to the Watch-house, from whence I endeavour'd to escape, but the Spikes of the Door got hold of my Breeches, upon which I was secur'd, and carried to Newgate , and at the next Sessions Blackburn and I receiv'd Sentence of Transportation.

Accordingly I was sent to Sustano , at the Head of Potomock , almost as high as the Eastern Branock , and was sold to John Gibbs a Shooemaker , and I went with him as far as Portobacco , and then found an Opportunity to leave him, and came to London in the Anne and Elizabeth, Cap. Clack.

About 3 or 4 Days after I came to London, James Barret who was cast last Sessions, and I robb'd the Ship that brought me up of a Box of Cloaths, which we sold to Jenny Johnson in Rag-Fair .

I afterwards was desir'd by Tom Boredon to carry Mr. Harvey's Linnen for him to Frankland, who was then a Debtor in Newgate , and I accordingly did, and Frankland bought it of me.

In a very short Time after this, I dogg'd a Gentleman who seem'd to be in Liquor from Billingsgate , till I had got him under Newgate , and then I pick'd his Pocket of his Watch.

To prevent Discovery, I put the Watch under my Arm, and ran up the Steps towards the Stone-Hall in Newgate , and I was talking to one Ned Joice a Prisoner there, the Watch struck 2, and Frankland hearing it, told me I was going to sell the Watch to Joice, and he would stop me, and accordingly he held me till the Turnkey came and secured me.

I was accordingly committed, and that Oct. Sessions was try'd for stealing Mr. Harvey's Linnen, and likewise Frankland for receiving it, knowing it to be stole; but that not affecting my Life, and being charg'd with returning from Transportation on Mr. Hazledine's Affair, I was try'd and convicted upon that, and receiv'd Sentence of Death. Which I go as easy to Execution, as if I was going to suck at my Mother's Breast; and I think it is doing a great deal of Good to hang me out of the Way.

JOHN GULLIFORD .

The following Account Joseph Allen gave of himself.

JOSEPH Allen , who was convicted of robbing Mr. Wells on the Highway, was at the Time of his Execution about 20 Years of Age, and was born of poor Parents, who gave him as good an Education as their Circumstances would admit of.

When he arriv'd at a proper Age, he was bound to Maxim Valmore , a Weaver in Slaugh-street , Spittlefields , with whom he serv'd out his Time, and afterwards work'd as a Journeyman with several Weavers there.

Some Time ago, Trade falling off, he and his Fellow Sufferer Buquois, took to Labouring Work, but that not being sufficient to maintain them, Buquois proposed going upon the Road.

With some Persuasion Allen yielded to his Request, and the first Person they attack'd was a Gentleman, whom they robb'd of about half a Guinea, in the Brick Field between Hoxton and Hackney . After this Robbery, they committed no other till about 3 Months afterwards, when (as this Malefactor said) their Necessities were very urgent, and then they attack'd 2 or 3 Persons in Hackney Fields ,

from whom they took about 30 s. and desisted from this Course of Life for some Time.

Allen and his Companion then went to Chatham , where they follow'd Labouring Work for 3 Months, and then Money falling short, they came to Town, and robb'd a Man near the Salmon and Ball at Hackney of a Watch, and 5 s. in Silver.

After this they committed several Robberies in Cutthroat-Lane near Newington , among which was that upon Mr. Wells, for which they were both apprehended, and brought to condign Punishment.

Mr. Robert Ramsey 's Account of Himself.

MY Life being justly forfeited by my Offences, wilful and repeted Breaches of the Laws, both of God and Man, it becomes me to do all that is in the Power of such an unhappy Wretch as I am, to render my Punishment serviceable to my Country, by exhorting those (especially my Brother, who was an Evidence against me) who have already set their Feet in the Paths of Folly and Destruction; to turn back in Time, before the Judgment of the Law shall overtake them, and to awaken such young Persons as may be misled into a Belief that there is something Pleasant and entertaining in a Life of Plunder and Iniquity, out of their fatal Mistakes, because 'tis but too evident, that those who once engage in such evil Ways, are seldom, if ever reclaimed.

Those, who in the Course of an inconsiderate and mispent Life, I have wrong'd, either by Word or Deed, will I hope, rest satisfied with that just Punishment, the Law hath adjudged me to, and which I shall have suffer'd before this comes to their Hands, and not load my Memory with Reproach, or transfer the Remembrance of my Guilt to those Friends that survive me, who (in Equity) ought not to suffer in their Character for my Crimes, though they have in their Fortune for my Extravagance and Folly. The Charity of Mankind in forgiving me, will redound to their own Praise and Tranquility; and as to those Persons who have injured me upon any Account whatever, I sincerely and unfeignedly forgive them.

The abundant Mercy of God, through the infinite Mercy of Christ my Redeemer, alight on my departing Soul, and purge it from all Stains of Sin and Pollution, before I appear in the Presence of my Creator. Amen.

The subsequent Account discovers such a Scene of Iniquity, as must be highly beneficial to the Publick, especially on two Accounts; one that it must render such Arts as this unhappy young Man and his Accomplices practised, less successful for the future; the other, that it will effectually fright young People from Billiard-Tables, and such Places, were, first they are drawn into Necessities, and then into wicked Practices to supply them.

He was born of reputable Parents near Grosvenor-square , who gave him very good Education (particularly at Westminster-School , and at other Schools) and when fit, he was put Apprentice to a Chymist , near Grosvenor-square , and served him sometime, 'till his Master coming to Misfortune, he was under a Necessity to leave him; after that, he hired himself as a Journeyman to a Chymist , not far from Charing Cross , where he lived sometime, 'till falling into bad Company, which was the sole Cause of his unhappy Exit.

The first beginning of his Misfortunes, was frequently going to the Billiard-Tables; he had learned to Play so well, that he was what they call a Tip top Player! it was at one of these Places he became acquainted with one Carr (who was concerned with him in forging Mr. Hoar's Notes, and who died in Newgate sometime ago) whose Talent at that Game being as good as his, they used very often to play as Strangers for very large Sums; but it was under a Pretence that Gentlemen should lay with the By-standers, which is performed thus: Two Persons go to a noted Billiard Table, and pretend to challenge one another to play; whilst they are at Play, two or three others, seemingly Strangers, likewise make their Entrance, who are Confederates with the former; while they are at play, these Confederates pitch upon either of the Players, and offers to lay a Sum of Money he wins the Game, which Sum is a small one, not exceeding half a Guinea; if any Body lays with them, he that lays is sure to have the best of it, 'till the Game is almost out, then the other Accomplices offer either to lay or take the Odds, which when they

have done, the Players, who, as was observed before, Play what they call Booty, know how to Manage, whether to win or loose, so very often endeavouring to make it appear, not deceiving to the By-standers, they loose themselves three or four Guineas, when perhaps their Accomplices win 30 or 40 l. By these Stratagems, Ramsey has had often for his Share 20 l. a Night. But he used to be as unfortunate at Hazard, as he was lucky in playing Booty (as they term it) at Billiards, for the Hazard - Table generally stripp'd him.

It was one Night that he and Carr had lost a considerable Sum of Money, and they were put to their Wits-end how to get more; but Carr who was of a fruitful Invention, soon thought of the following Stratagem. Himself belonging to the Playhouse, could have any Dress from thence he thought proper; and dressing himself as a Harlequin, and Ramsey as a Spaniard, they immediately repair'd to their Lodgings, where taking a Quantity of Half-pence, which they before had got ready for the Purpose, they made three Parcels, and about forty Half-pence in each Parcel, which they sealed up with an Earl's Coat of Arms. As soon as this was done, they ordered a Servant to call a couple of Chairs, and directed the Chairmen to carry them both (there being a Masquerade that Night) to the Masquerade in the Hay market . As soon as they arrived there, they diverted themselves with some little Tricks and Conversation amongst the People of Quality, 'till part of the Company settled themselves to play at Hazard in one of the Rooms, to which Place they soon retired amongst the rest, and seated themselves, where Ramsey placing upon the Table his three Rows of Half-pence, sealed with an Earl's Coat of Arms; he was not long settled before the Box came round, and it was his Turn to throw, and fixing his Eye round the Table, found there was set about 50 l. which Sum he knocked at, and throwing out, he said, Double or Quit, Gentlemen, which they presently complied with, and then throw'd again, and flung out; and said, Double or Quit again, they all answered Yes, but poor Ramsey's ill Fortune would not let him winn, for he once more flung out, and having the Box, was going to throw once more; when one of the Gentlemen cried, please to pay, Sir! Ay, Sir! so taking his three Parcel of Half-pence, he push'd them towards the Gentleman, and said, Sir, there is what I have lost, please to take yours, and pay the rest of the Gentlemen, and immediately getting up in a very great Passion, Swore he would play no more that Night, and push'd off with great Precipitation. The Gentleman opening the Paper, and seeing nothing but Half-pence, called out to the Waiters to stop him; but he had taken Care to get out of their reach.

This Stratagem having not succeeded according to Expectation, made him go Home with a heavy Heart, and the next Day, he and Carr being at a Loss for want of Money, they had recourse to the following Stratagem; there was that Night a Play acted, call'd, the Spanish Fryar, in York-Buildings , which Play was performed by a Company of young Gentlemen for their Diversion; to this Place they immediately repaired as Spectators, and Ramsey knowing one of the Gentlemen who played a Part, soon procured two Tickets in order for their Admittance; no sooner had they got in, and the Company settled, and the young Tragedy Heroes in the Height of their Performance, and the Persons who had the Care of their Cloths being very Intent upon seeing the Play, Ramsey, and Carr took the Opportunity in their Absence, to carry off at Times, several of their Cloths, as Coats, Waistcoats, Breeches, &c. which they had Time enough to do, and in short to carry all away: But they had some Conscience at that Time; as soon as they had taken away what they thought proper, they returned as Spectators to see the Issue, that they might not be suspected: As soon as the Play was over, the Tragedy Prince, &c. came to undress, and put themselves in Statu Quo; but one missed his Coat, another his Waistcoat and Breeches, and some their whole Suits; and in particular, the Gentleman who played the Character of TORISMOND, was obliged to go Home without either Coat, Waistcoat or Breeches, which put him in a violent Passion, insomuch that he solemnly swore (and its hoped he kept his Word) he would never turn Player any more.

But to return to Ramsey, and Carr; this Booty produced them upwards of ten Guineas, which they equally shared; but this Money being gone, they employed their Wits once more to raise a Recruit. In order to do this, they went upon (Excuse the Use of their Cant honest Language, having no proper Expression for it, viz.) the Lay, call'd, Clacking, or Bilking the Taverns, after the

following Manner, viz. Carr dressed himself in a very rich Livery, and Ramsey, as a young Gentleman of Fortune, who took the Title of a Baronet, (which first gave Rise of his being called Sir Robert Ramsey ) and to make the Matter less suspected, he used to carry a young Lady of the Town with him, which he pick'd up by the Way, to a Tavern, where Sir Robert's Servant coming in some time afterwards to enquire if Sir - such a one, Baronet was not there, who had before taken Care to leave his Name at the Bar. As soon as the Drawer had answered, and introduced to the pretended Baronet, the Baronet ordered him to wait 'till he had supped, and likewise to go into the Kitchen. Whilst his pretended Footman Carr was there, he used to employ his Time in drinking pretty freely of his Master's Bounty (for he had Orders to drink what he pleased) and amuse the Drawers, Cook, &c. with a long Story of his Master the Baronet's Generosity, and likewise of his honourable Family and worthy Ancestors. Whilst these Things were in Agitation, he used now and then to slip a Silver Spoon, or what lay nearest to him, in his Pocket; this done, he immediately called the Drawer, and desired to know if his Master did not want him, at the same Time looking at the Clock, and desiring the Drawer to tell his Master it was such an Hour, naming the Hour, which was the Signal agreed on, between the Baronet and his Footman, that when he had got any Moveables, he might immediately go out and Plant it. The Drawer presently used to bring Word, that the Baronet desired his Servant to go to my Lord - such a one's immediately, and bring an Answer as soon as possible; so Carr used to slip out, and Plant the Moveable, and then return in a certain Space of Time. By these Means, his Footman Carr and Ramsey bilked several Taverns in this City, and made off with what they could, which they always took Care should not be found upon them, if they were suspected, which very seldom happened; for this Reason, they always chose those Places where much Company used to Resort, and if they could not go handsomely off, they always paid the Reckoning. The first Fact they did of this Nature, was at a certain Tavern in Pall-Mall , where they got a Tankard, half a dozen of Silver Spoons, and a Salt, which was disposed off (the Marks being taken out) to one James Barth - lmi, the Silversmith who lived at Charing - Cross , and was transported fourteen Years for buying Mr. Shirley's Tankards, which one * Gaffney and his Accomplices stole.

But to return to our Baronet; that he got so much after this Manner, that he always used to appear in black Velvet, with a good Watch in his Pocket, and a Diamond Ring on his Finger, and being a Person well educated, and had other Accomplishments, he and his Man passed on very successfully in this Practice for upwards of two Years.

But Ramsey and his Man Carr's bad Success at the Hazard-Table (for there they both used to resort) soon verified the old English Proverb, That ill-gotten Goods never thrive, for Ramsey was generally stripp'd. They were so very cautious of being known in the Day-time, that generally Ramsey used to be dressed as a Servant, and his pretended Footman Carr, as a Gentleman. It was at one of these Taverns which they bilk'd, that they imposed on a Clergyman in the following Manner.

The Parson used to use a certain Coffee-house where Ramsey frequented, and Carr likewise. When the Mask was flung off, and he dressed as a Gentleman: They taking great Notice of this Clergyman, and he of them, they used often to get into Disputes in Conversation, and Ramsey and Carr maintaining their Point pretty well, they were both much admired by the Hearers; by this Means, often meeting at this Coffee-house they always used to bow to the Parson very respectively, and he to them. One Day, Money being at that Time pretty low with them both, Ramsey addressed himself to the Parson as follows. " Sir, says he, (Carr then not being present) " I have an Affair of the greatest Importance to communicate to you, and I do not " doubt if you can't serve me, that you are a " Person of so much Honour, that you will keep " what I have to say as a very great Secret."* This was the Person that swore he was Mac Creigh's Surgeon, at the Time of his Trial at Kingston. Gaffney was Execnted at Tyburn , on Monday the 22d of September, 1735.

The Parson assured him he would. Then Sir, resumes Ramsey, " My Friend, whom you have " often seen with me, is very much smitten with, " and well received by a young Widow Lady " of a very great Fortune, but their Friends " are so averse to the Match, that they watch " all Opportunities to frustrate their Hopes, and " have actually disappointed them both several " Times of being married. Now, my Friend " is really so much in Love, that I believe he'll " in a short Time run distracted, if he does not " Possess the Widow. Here Sir, lies the Difficulty, she abhors the Name of being married " at the Fleet, and as I observed before, their " Friends are so vigilant, that they disappoint " them in doing it in any other Shape." Sir, answers the Parson, I'll try if I can stand your Friend. Sir, says Ramsey, if you can, I'll engage the Sum of twenty Pieces for a Pair of Gloves. The Parson semed pleas'd at such a Sum, promised he might command him to do as he pleased, and moreover added, the sooner this Thing is done, the better. Ah! says Ramsey a little more cool, finding the Parson inclineable. There is still a small difficulty, which is this, that it must be done as private as possible, and in order to do it, he desired the Parson would meet him at such a Tavern, naming a Tavern near the Royal Exchange the next Day, at such an Hour, and in the mean Time he would acquaint his Friend with the Parson's Friendship, which he did not doubt his Friend would be over-joyed to hear. Immediately Ramsey posted from the Parson to Carr, and informed him of the Success, they consulted together, and proceeded thus.

The next Day, which was the Day the Parson was to meet Ramsey and his Friend. Ramsey goes to his Lodgings, and tells the Parson that it was necessary that there should be a Footman in the Case, and his Friend's Footman being known, he had agreed to personate one, in order to accomplish their Design the better, and he thought proper to call, that the Parson might not do any Thing to frustrate their Design through a Mistake; and likewise, Ramsey did this, that he might see the Posture of his Lodgings, and what Things might be made there. And while Ramsey was there, the Landlady, who was a Woman of Worth, came up Stairs, and seeing Ramsey with the Parson, was going to retreat; but he desired her with much Ceremony, not to go, for he had no great Business with the Parson, only there was an innocent Frolick in Agitation, and that in all Probability, she might see him by and by disguised as a Footman, and at the same Time gave the Parson the Wink, - by this means he deceived them both as will appear.

Shortly after some trivial Discourse being over, Ramsey very respectively took his Leave of the Parson, and told him he wou'd wait of him shortly in his proper Dress, which he did; and being equipped as a Footman, told the Parson, that it was necessary that they should both go together in a Hackney-Coach, he within, and the other behind; immediately they both posted away in a Hack. When they came there, Ramsey got down and opened the Door, and let the Parson out very respectfully; and there being the best Room before bespoke, the Parson was conducted in with much Ceremony. As soon as he was seated, Ramsey who had before played his Part, ordered that the Doctor might have a Bottle of Frontiniac, which was the Wine he loved by his Master's Order: When this was carried in, the Parson having no Company, desired

THERE being so many Facts and Particulars given by Mr. RAMSEY, as render it impracticable to bring the same within the usual Compass, and yet so necessary to be known, that we must therefore beg Leave to refer our READERS to the Second Part of this Account, which will be publish'd on MONDAY next, wherein the READER will find the remaining Part of the copious Narrative of the Life of ROBERT RAMSEY , containing among other Variety of Exploits, the manner of his defrauding (in Conjunction with C - s and Carr) Messrs. Hoare and Com. of 70 l. Likewise his Exploits at Bristol , where he turn'd METHODIST, and officiated as a Clerk to Mr. W - , and went off with their Money. The Manner of his robbing Taverns of their Plate, where he passed for a Baronet, and Carr as his Servant. The whole containing such a Variety of uncommon Adventures, as are hardly to be met with in one Man. All wrote by himself; a Warning to the World how they are imposed on in the like Manner.

ERRATA, Page 12. in Col. 1. l. 13, instead of was, r. were. in Col. 2. p. ditto. l. 16. instead of it, r. we.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 13th of January, 1741-2.

BEING THE FIRST EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Sir Robert Godschall , Knt .

Number I. PART II.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLI.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

THE Drawer to send up the Gentleman's Servant, which he did, and was what Ramsey wanted, to prepare the Parson for his Purpose. The Parson drinking pretty freely of the Wine, in some time fell asleep; Ramsey was not idle upon this Occasion, for as soon as the Parson was past the Sense of feeling, Ramsey picked his Pocket of his Keys. The Parson, after he had slept about an Hour, awoke, and looking at his Watch, found that it was nigh eleven o'Clock, and that being the Hour appointed, told Ramsey, he wondered his Friend did not come: Ramsey said, he would step and see the Reason, and immediately went to the Parson's Landlady, and telling her the Parson had sent him for something in his Cabinet, and as a Token, he had brought the Keys. The Landlady showed him up Stairs, and as soon as he was by himself, he pillaged the Room of 100 l. which he found in a Cabinet, besides a Diamond Ring worth 20 l. and looking over some Papers, found them of such Importance, as that the carrying them off might prevent a Prosecution in case of Discovery. These therefore he clapped in his Pocket, and was so dextrous and nimble about his Business, that he returned to the Parson in less than an Hour, who understanding that there was Orders for every Thing he had a Mind too, had by Ramsey's Return, got a good Dinner upon the Table. Ramsey, as soon as he entered the Room where the Parson was, told him his Friend would be there in a few Minutes, and in the mean Time if any Thing came, to take it in, and he would step a little Way, and return presently.

No sooner was Ramsey gone, but up comes a Jeweller, who brought with him a plain Gold Ring, and a Diamond one, worth 30 Guineas, which Jeweller was sent by Ramsey in his Footman's Habit, who had ordered him to carry the Rings to such a Place, where was a Gentleman waiting, naming the Place where the Parson was staying for the Baronet, or Gentleman as he then passed for; now Sir Robert had sometime before, bespoke these Rings of this Jeweller; as soon as the Jeweller entered the Room, the Parson, who before had been prepared by Ramsey, accosted him in the following Manner: Come Sir, says he, please to drink to the Bride and Bridegroom's Health; Ay, withal my Heart, says the Jeweller, I don't know what sort of a Lady she may be, but I am sure he is a good natur'd civil Gentleman; upon this, the Jeweller pulled out his two Rings. Ramsey, who was already return'd, lissen'd at the Door, and as soon as the Jeweller had pro

duced the Rings, opens the Door, and steps into the Room, and tell Mr. B - d the Jeweller, that he was wanted at Home immediately, by a Gentleman in a Coach; but Sir, added he, I would not have you stay, for my Master will be here presently; the Jeweller, who had just before put the Rings in the Parson's Hands, took his Leave with much Complaisance, and hoped when the Gentleman came, if he was not returned by that Time, that the Parson would excuse him, and if he could, he would dispatch the Gentleman, and be back again as soon as possible.

The Jeweller was no sooner gone, but Ramsey taking the Diamond Ring out of the Parson's Hands, and pretending to look at it, seemed to be in a sort of a Surprize, Lord Sir! (says he) to the Parson, he has not had the two first Letters of my Friend's Name engrav'd on the Ring according to Orders; I'll step immediately back to him and get it done. This is a Mistake indeed cries the Parson; away posts Ramsey, and leaves the plain Gold Ring behind him. The Jeweller had no sooner got Home, and found there was no Body there a waiting for him, he presently begun to smell a Rat, and hurrying away to the Tavern, enquired if the Parson was gone, and was answered by the Drawer, No. Upon which, blessing his good Fortune as he thought, desired the Drawer to go and fetch a Constable immediately; whilst the Drawer was obeying his Orders, he runs up Stairs, and the Parson being fast asleep, as soon as the Jeweller found this, O ho! Mr. Gentleman have I catched you, but I'll swinge you, or make you pay for my Rings; with these Words the Parson awoke, and rubbing his Eyes, asked what was the Matter? By this Time the Drawer returned with a Constable, who coming in, the Jeweller charged the Parson with defrauding him of two Rings; I defraud you Sir! says the Parson, I believe you are mad; What do you mean? I'll tell you presently; come bring him along before the next Magistrate, and then he shall see what I mean. Away they all marched to the next Justice; where being come, the Jeweller charged the Parson with defrauding him of two Rings, and told a long Story how he had them bespoke some Days before, by one who he believed to be the Parson's Accomplice. The Jeweller's Story in short seem'd so plain, that all the Parson said in his Defence, seemed to make the Matter more plain against himself, till at last the Justice was going to commit him; but he sending for some Gentlemen of undoubted Character and Reputation, they passed their Word it was an Imposition on the Parson, as well as the Jeweller; and likewise gave a sufficient Security for his Behaviour, so he was discharged. But when he came Home, and found all his Money gone, and Papers and Ris besides, he was ready to run distracted; the Jeweller who had a covetous Wife, was almost mad at his Loss, he met with a most gracious Reception.

This last Adventure lined their Pockets pretty well, and it being Summer Season, they went into the Country, and staid there till they had nigh consumed their Money, which being almost gone, they returned to London, and pursued their old Adventures. They had great Success in all their Adventures of this Nature, till one Evening going to the Cross-Keys Tavern in Holborn , (not far from Mr. Glynn's House who he robb'd of a great Quantity of Plate, and which he has suffer'd for) Sir Robert order'd a Supper to be got ready, and his Footman Carr came in a short Time to enquire for him, dressed in a Livery, and was ordered by his Master Sir Robert Ramsey , to go into the Kitchen, and wait according to Custom; while Carr was there he was not idle, but took several Things of Value, and went out and hid them, returning to wait on his Master at Supper. The Baronet took an Opportunity to tell him he had not Money enough about him to discharge the Reckoning, asking him what was to be done? Carr said, he would go and sell some of the Goods, and so pay the People with a Pig of their own Sow, which he accordingly went to do. But Barthelemi the Silversmith being gone to Bed, he returned unsuccessful, telling the Baron it was too late, that he could do nothing that Night; so that in short they e'en got off as well as they could; in order to effect which, they pretended to come out of the Room, and Carr pretending to whisper to his Master the young Baronet, they both took to their Heels; the Drawers pursuing the Baronet, he took up a wrong Turning where there was no thoroughfare, he was taken, and Carr got off. He was kept all Night in Custody, and the next Morning

was carried before the late Sir Rich. Brocas , who upon examining into the Matter, and the Master of the Tavern not taking upon him to swear any Thing against him, but his attempt to defraud him of his Reckoning, he was discharged upon Payment of that, which he soon did, Carr sending the Money.

By this Means they went on still in the old Way, with much Success for some Time, till at last, attempting something in the same Nature near Charing-cross, they were both taken and carried before Colonel Deveil, who upon Examination committed Ramsey to Tottlefields-Bridewell , and Carr to the Gatehouse; whilst they was thus seperated, Methods were used to make Ramsey an Evidence, who at last accepted of their Proposals; two Days afterwards they were both brought Face to Face, in order to their further Examination, where giving an Account (though not justly) of their past Transactions, Carr was committed to Newgate, and Ramsey remanded back. This Affair had made so much Talk all over the Town, that there were Numbers of People of all sorts daily flocked to see him, which however did not divert Ramsey otherwise Sir Robert, from endeavouring to make his Escape, it being upwards of two Months from the Time of their Commitment to the Sessions, and Ramsey in that Time being a good Benefactor to Thomas Barber , the then Keeper of Tuttlehillfields-Bridewell , caused Barber to use him very civilly; there was committed likewise upon Ramsey's Information, a Person who was an Apothecary, who had helped Ramsey off with some of his Things which he had stole; this Person and Ramsey were ordered to be kept seperate, but as was observed before, by the Keepers having a Benefactor of Ramsey's bringing Grist to his Mill, he indulged them often in being together.

In this their private Interview, the other Man suggested, that Ramsey had accused Carr unjustly, as well as himself, who was committed upon his Account; Ramsey said, he would make 'em both Amends, and be revenged on the Keeper, who had drawn him in to make himself an Evidence against them. Ramsey was so well respected by the Keeper, that he often took him out of an Evening (as he says) along with him, during the Time of his Confinement, but was so watchful of him, that he could not attempt any Thing then: But sometime after Sessions beginning at Hicks's-Hall , Ramsey was brought up there in order to swear what he had before done against Carr at Colonel Deveil's, and the next Day a Bill being found upon Ramsey's Evidence against Carr, Ramsey was brought up towards the Evening, in order to give his Information; as he was bringing along, having no Body with him but Thomas Barber , (who was then Deputy-Keeper ) and it being two Hours too soon, he took him with him, and went to take some Refreshment at a Friend's House near Drury-Lane ; after they had dined, Ramsey drank a Bumper to Carr's getting off, and Barber pledg'd him; whilst he was looking over some Papers, Ramsey dropp'd a certain quantity of Liquid Laudanum into Barber's Glass, and poured him out a fresh Glass of Wine. Come, says Ramsey, here goes once more towards Success; withal my Heart, says Barber, immediately taking his Glass off, which in some small Time afterwards caused him to fall fast asleep.

After he had been senseless and stupid, Ramsey try'd to awake him, on purpose to see whether he had made sure Work, and finding he had, he open'd the Window, chusing to go out that Way for fear of Suspicion from the People below, and let himself down by the Help of his Garters into a back Court, and immediately went off to some Friends, who raised him some Money, with which he went into the Country.

But to return to Barber, the Trial coming on, People was dispatch'd to all Parts to see for him, and at last one coming to the Place where he was, and enquiring for him, they were conducted up Stairs, where Barber sat fast asleep; when they awoke him, he appeared senseless and stupid; but coming a little to himself, and finding Ramsey had made his Escape, he was frightened out of his Wits, and ran up and down the Streets like a mad Man; going every where where he could think, and finding the Bird quite flown, he went to the Old-Bailey , and compromized the Matter with the Prosecutors; so when Carr was called to his Trial, he was acquitted.

Ramsey as soon as he had got some Money, immediately went for St. Alban's, and the next Day reached Stoney Stratford , and so on to Chester . When he came there, he passed for an Apothecary , who had just arrived from Holland , and was going over to Ireland to set up his Business; whilst he was here, he gave out that he had a Preparation which was communicated to him A

broad, that would infallible cure the GOVT. This Distemper his Landlord being much troubled with, presently gave much Ear to, and Ramsey who never wanted for Address, so persuaded this Man, who was very hipp'd, that this Preparation would do him great Service; So in short, the Man believing himself to be much better by this excellent Preparation as Ramsey called it; gave out that he was cured of the GOVT by Dr. Johnson, (for so Ramsey called himself) and the Thing having a very great Effect amongst the common sort of People.

Dr. Johnson publish'd printed Bills all over the City, and offered likewise Advice in all Distempers Gratis, Tuesdays and Wednesdays for the Men, and Thursdays and Fridays for the Women; by this Means he being dressed in an old rusty Suit of Cloaths, and his Eye Brows black'd, he gained much Esteem by his pretended Gravity, and Money came in a-pace. Amongst the rest of Ramsey's Patients who came to him for Advice, there was a young Lady that was troubled with an Asthma; this Lady coming backwards and forwards pretty much for Dr. Johnson's Advice, he took a great liking to her, imagining you must think, that she had a good Fortune, which upon the Doctor's Enquiry she had, for she was worth 1000 l. all in her own Hands. The next Step was to break his Passion to her, which he took an Opportunity to do, when she came to him one Day, in the following manner.

" Madam, says he, I find by your Symptoms " you are much better, (but added he with a very " great Sigh) I am much worse since my administring my Remedies to you; for I am in short " possessed with such Ideas, sleeping and waking, that unless you permit me the Pleasure of " dying at your Feet, I shall pine away, and " in a short Time despair." The young Lady who had not been used to such Expressions, began to look very earnestly at the Doctor, and said, Sir! I can't tell what you mean by these Expressions. Why Madam, says he, at the same Time catching hold of one of her Hands; permit me but to wait on you, and I hope Time will convince you, that my Meaning is sincere. Ramsey said abundance of Things of this Nature, and being a Person (as was observed before) very skilful in this Sort of Address, that in some short Time he gain'd the young Ladies Consent to visit her, in the Quality of a Suitor. Flush'd with this Success, he went on for some Days, and had certainly succeeded, (if an Uncle of the young Lady's, who had best Part of her Fortune in his Hands, and who paid her Interest for it) had not come to Town in the Interim.

This Gentleman coming to Chester , advised with the young Lady, telling her it was very proper to make some farther Enquiry into the Doctor's Circumstances; to this she with some Reluctancy condescended; and in short, it happen'd very providentally she did so, or else she had certainly been trick'd. Dr. Johnson finding the old Gentleman very solicitous to enquire concerning his Family and Circumstances, pretended to write to Scotland to several Persons of Fortune, to whom he pretended he was related, and show'd the old Gentleman the Contents of the Letters, which for the present satisfied him.

Now Ramsey was in Hopes he should gain the young Ladies Consent before it was Time for the Answers returned, he redoubled his Courtship in private to her, hoping as he said, she was satisfied to this. She answer'd with a Sigh! she was very well satisfied, for it was impossible a Gentleman of his Education and Appearance, should be an IMPOSTOR. But still she was uneasy, left her Uncle should know, and begg'd him to defer it some small Time longer; besides, it would be a difficulty she said, if he should find it out, to get her Effects out of his Hands.

With these Answers Ramsey seemed to be satisfied, but still was in Hopes that she would consent privately. Whilst these Things were in Agitation, Ramsey one Day taking a Walk upon the Walls of the City, and who should he espy some Distance from him, but the Parson whom he had defrauded of his Money, Ring and Papers some Time before. This you must be sure put him in a very great Consternation, for he was so confounded that he scarce knew what to do; but at last recovering himself, he retreated to his Lodging with great Precipitation, and considering with himself that this was no Place for his longer Continuance, he therefore resolved he would not go off empty handed; but which was the Way to fly was his next Consideration, so at last he resolved to go for Ireland ; then going to a Place where he was not known, he dispatched a Messenger to Park Gate, to know whether there was any Vessel going for Dublin ; the Messenger re

turning, brought Word that was one expected to go off that Night. He immediately went to the young Lady's Lodgings, and after drinking some Tea, she left him some small Time in her Appartment by himself, and with his Spatula and Probe, picked open a Lock of her Bureau; when he had so done, he found a Bag, in which was contained fourscore Pound, and by the Side of it lay a Diamond Ring, which he took, and about fifty Pounds out of the Bag. After he had done this, he shut and lock'd the Bureau, the young Lady returning, he told her that he should be glad if she would honour him with her Company that Evening at his Appartment, to play a Game at Cards, which she consentented to, and away they both went towards Dr. Johnson's Lodging.

As soon as she arrived there, and being seated about an Hour, Ramsey pretended to go down Stairs, and returned in a very great Hurry. Madam, says he, your Uncle's come to pay me a Visit, do you chuse to be seen by him? (now he knew very well before-hand, that she did not care her Uncle should see her at his Lodging, by Reason she had told the Doctor that her Uncle had ordered her to pay him no more Visits, till the Answers came to his Letters) Upon which she was going to hide herself in the Closet. Hold! Hold! Madam, says Ramsey, you need not hide yourself, the old Gentleman's below in deep Discourse with my Landlord; now if you please to continue where you are, and divert yourself about an Hour, or in what Time I can dispatch the old Gentleman, I'll go and persuade him to drink a Glass of Wine with me, and if you chuse to Read, here's a Book to divert you, at the same Time presenting her with Pomfret's Poems, to this she readily consented, so the Doctor was going, but on a Sudden returning said, I believe Madam I had as good lock the Door for fear he should come up before he goes, and then I'll pretend I can't find the Key; so he lock'd her in.

Now this was a Stratagem of Ramsey's, that she should not go Home and miss her Money and Ring. He lost no Time, but made the best of his Way to Park-Gate, and as soon as he arriv'd there, the Vessel was going off, which gave him but just Time to write the following LETTER.

DEAR MADAM,

I Doubt not but you'll be extremely surprized at the sudden Disappearance of your Lover; but when you begin to recollect what a dreadful Precipice you have escaped, you will bless your happy Stars; by the Time this comes to Hand, I shall be pretty near London . As for the Trifle I borrow'd of you, I hope you will excuse, as knowing it was in my Power to have taken all if I wold; but you see there is still some Conscience left amongst us Doctors; the Ring I intend to keep for your Sake, without the HAZARD-TABLE disappoints me. If ever Fortune puts it in my Power, I will make a Return, and 'till then, accept of this Advice, never let a strange Doctor possess yor Affections no more. I had almost forgot, I ask Pardon for making you my Prisoner, but I doubt not, old Starch-Face, your Uncle, would detain me a little longer than I have you, if he could catch me: Adieu!

R. JOHNSON.

As soon as he had wrote this, he desir'd that a Person to whom he gave it, would not deliver it under two Days, which he was pretty sure he would not, he having some Business which detained him from going to Chester till that Time; and the Vessel going immediately off, Ramsey reach'd Dublin with a good Wind in 24 Hours Time. As soon as he arriv'd he chang'd his Dress, and went immediately to several Places to see whether his Transactions at Chester was blown there, whereupon examining the Papers found they was not, he continued to lay as private as he could for some Days, and finding he was still safe, he made himself very easy, and appear'd much in Publick.

After he had been there about a Month, he took a large House, and fitted it up in a very decent manner; here he passed for an ASTROLOGER , and gave out that he had his Learning under the Great Dr. Edward Haley ; this procur'd him abundance of Acquaintance, and he undertook to resolve all manner of Questions relating to that Art: Whilst he was in this House he had order'd several Instruments to be made, and pre

tending to write a Treatise on the fix'd Stars: this he proposed to do by Subscription, and Dr. DYCHE, for so our Astrologer called himself, got a great deal of Money by Way of Subscription for his pretended Treatise, which he propos'd should be Printed in two Months after these Proposals were Printed, and in order to amuse the People, especially the ignorant Sort, he used to divert them, with telling them the manner of the Revolution of the Planets, and what Planet ruled every Hour, for he had got a smattering in this Art; and likewise could name what particular Planet ruled every Hour.

People that was more experienc'd in these Things, he used to amuse with a Story, that he was always about some new Discovery or other; such as endeavouring to find out the perpetual Motion, in order thereto he had got a Machine with Quick Silver of his own Invention, which appear'd very curious, and was a sort of a counterfeit perpetual Motion; but this he never exposed to View without he knew his Men, and then he never let them see the working of this Machine above a quarter of an Hour at a Time, and then used to lock it up, inventing some Excuse to get them away, promising that they should see it another Time, for it was not quite finished.

As for the more illiterate sort, he was much esteem'd by, and they thought him for his Age the greatest Person they ever saw or heard off; but Money did not come in fast enough this Way, for our Astrologer kept such a good House, and feasted his Friends so magnificently, that at last could scarce make both Ends meet; so after he had continued here some Months he was resolv'd to get off, but could not with a safe Conscience go empty handed; the two Months being near expir'd, in which his Treatise was to appear, he had Recourse to the following Stratagem; he first of all gets an old Beggar's Disguise, and a long Beard, which Disguise he kept by him to be ready against the first Opportunity, and going to a Person who lent Money upon Pawns, desiring him to let him have a certain quantity of Money upon his Furniture, 30 l. which the other consented to, telling him withal, that this Money was to purchase a certain Machine which he had then bespoke, telling him likewise that he would make a Return in a few Days, but withal desir'd the Pawnbroker to be Secret; saying, that he would not have such a Thing known for the whole World; the other told him that he might depend on his Secrecy.

About this Time came thither from Holland a Person that was reckon'd to be a very famous Man, and Dr. DYCHE gave out, that he wou'd dispute with this Man upon any one Point that he should propose; the other hearing of this sent him Word, to chuse his Subject; whereupon our Astrologer sent him an Answer, that he would enter into an Enquiry, Whether Sir Isaac Newton treating the Metaphysics Mathematically were just, or no? He was inclinable he said to think the contrary, desiring his Antagonist to be ready against such a Day, in order to defend that Point. The other thinking he had the right Side of the Question, sent Answer he would be ready for him against the Day appointed.

Now they had at that Time agreed on a certain Place where the Dispute was to be, and likewise to print a certain Number of Tickets at 2 s. 6 d. each, to be deliver'd to such Persons as should chuse to come to hear this Dispute. Now each was to put off as many as he could; Ramsey three Days before the appointed Time put off upwards of 400 among his Acquaintance, and finding he could put off no more, he thought it high Time to retreat, judging he could not trust with Safety to his Disguise if he stay'd.

The Noise of this Dispute ran all over the Town, and abundance of People were big in their Expectations to hear this learned Dispute. Our Astrologer and Chymist kept himself after he had disposed of his Tickets very retire, and all Company that came, he pretended he could not see, on account of his deep Study, in order to prepare himself for the Dispute; the appointed Day came, and Ramsey as was observ'd before, had taken Care to prepare himself for the Day, and disguising himself like an old Beggar, putting an large Patch upon one Eye, and a counterfeit Beard on, and daub'd his Hands all over with Walnut-tree Liquor; in this Dress he was so disguised, that he was pretty sure no body would know him, with an old Bag at his Back, in which was contained his Cloaths and Linnen, he set out to see the Issue of his Adventures.

For his farther Security he had some Days before enquired, and heard that there was a Liver

pool Ship that had brought Goods from thence to Drogheda, which was expected to depart very soon.

But to return, when he had thus disguised himself, and the Time of the Evening drawing on, he went to an obscure Part of the City, to a House where several Beggars were a drinking, and preparing to go to the Place where this Dispute was to be, in order to ask Charity; accordingly he mix'd himself in their Company, and having a particular Knack of counterfeiting, he was observed by them, thinking him to be one of them; as soon as they all arrived to this Place, the People was flocking in a-pace to hear the Dispute, when the House was full, and the Time expired, the Company began to look round and saw the other Disputer ready enter'd to engage his Antagonist; but waiting some Time with Impatience, and finding no Opponant, began to be more uneasy; at last some of the Company proposed to send to the Doctor's House, to know the Reason, which they did, and the Messenger returning, inform'd them he had knock'd at the Doctor's Door, and waited a good while, no body came, neither could they see any Light in the House, making likewise an Enquiry in the Neighbourhood, but none of the Neighbours was able to give him a satisfactory Answer; this put them in a great Consternation, not knowing what to think; when they had waited about an House, finding themselves disappointed, began to think of departing; first one came out, and then another said, I judg'd what this Dispute would come to; and a third said, if we could but find the Dog, he shall be made an Example of; and the fourth came out scratching his Ears.

At last, one of the Company said, it was a Combination between 'em both, and proposed to go back and make the other Refund their Money, which several of the Company agreed to; and coming up to the other Doctor, asked him in a very surly Manner for their Money; but he making some Excuse, and not being very ready to make a return, they began to charge him with being a Confederate, and he not returning a satisfactory Answer, they were more Loud, and several of the rest of the Auditors being divided in their Opinions, began to quarrel with one another, and from Words, they fell to Blows, and in the Scufle, the poor Dutch Doctor was beaten almost to Pieces, and his Gown torn off his Back, so that when he came out, it very much diverted Ramsey, for he looked more like a Beggar than a Doctor.

At last, the Company, after they had tired themselves with breaking one another's Heads, and tearing their Cloaths, came out, and as they passed along, swore what they would do, if they could catch Dr. DYCHE, as they supposed Ramsey to be. Ramsey, as soon as he had diverted himself with seeing part of this Sight, made the best of his Way for Drogheda , which is about 20 Miles from Dublin ; there he reached before Morningg, and the Ship sailing before Night, he reached Liverpool in two Days Time; where being come, he the next Day went from thence on his Road towards Durham , at which Place he arrived about ten Days, from his landing at Liverpool ; as soon as he came within 15 Miles of Durham , he flung off his Disguise, and dressing himself, went to see several Friends that lived at that Place; when he came to Durham , he had by him upwards of 70 l. His Money being almost gone, he made the best of his Way for London , where being come, the first Place he went to was the Hazard Table, and being pretty Fortunate, he won in four Day's Time upwards of 100 l. and in a Week after that, lost it all again, except about five Guineas; and as he was taking a melancholy Walk along the Piazza's at Covent Garden , who should he meet but his old Acquaintance Carr; after some Ceremonies passed, they satisfied each other of their Affairs, and Carr told him, he had not been in London long, but since his coming, he was informed, that there was an Estate depending, which if he could find an honest Attorney, he would put his Papers in his Hands, which if the Attorney would be honest to him, and do him Justice, would keep him comfortably without any farther Recourse to any mean Arts. Ramsey mentioned one whom Carr had been brought acquainted with some Days before, by the Means of one R - m, but Carr thought him not a sufficient Person, by reason he was not for himself, so they parted for that Time; in some few Days after, Carr and Ramsey meeting accidentally, and were contemplating on their Circumstances, which was, want of Money; who should come by, as they were talking in the Street, but the Attorney whom

Ramsey had recommended to Carr, who asked Carr, why he had not brought the Writings of the Estate beforemention'd; and asked him, why he looked so melancholly. Carr told him, want of Money, upon which, he told him, he was much distressed that Way himself, for he had so many Actions out against him, that he could not tell what to do; if it is so says Carr, my Friend Ramsey here, and I, will bail you in the High-Court, in the mean Time you may have Liberty to fight them off; so accordingly Ramsey and Carr went before a Judge and bail'd him; some time after, this Bail being objected, the Attorney was taken up and confined in a Spunging-House, known by the Name of Mother Bunche's , which Carr and Ramsey hearing, they went to see him; they seemed to be very sorry for his Misfortunes, and told him, they wish'd they could any Ways help him. Ay! says he, it was in my Power to have help'd myself, for the Day this happened, I could have gone off with 500 l. and should have done it if I had met any Body which had known me, and I could have trusted. Says Ramsey, what a Pity that was, I wish I had met you, we would have push'd off with the Money.

Some Time after the Attorney got out, by the Means of his Master who he was Clerk too; but he disobliging him, they in a short Time parted; and being along with one Sands, as they were walking in Guildhall , they met with Carr and Ramsey, and the general Complaint being Want of Money, one of the four inform'd them, he had that in his Pocket as would fetch Money, and would be the Key to open for Thousands more; upon which he pull'd out the forg'd Note upon Messrs. Hoare and Company in Fleet-street , sign'd William Payne , and offer'd it to Ramsey to go with it; but he apprehending some Danger refused, so Carr undertook to go with it, upon Condition he'd come into a Scheme which he had just thought of, which was, that he and Ramsey should go and play a Game at Billiards at a certain Table in Moorfields , known by the Name of the Chevalier's, to which Place the yong Attorney agreed to go, and that he was to come in as a Stranger, and play with Carr for a certain Time, and after losing a small Sum of Money, to offer Carr the forg'd Note, which he agreed too; Carr's Reason for so doing was, that if the Note should be stopp'd, it would be a sufficient Security to him; so accordingly Carr and Ramsey went as they had agreed to the Billiard-Table, and after playing some Time, in comes the young Attorney, and one Sands, whereupon Carr and Ramsey left of Play, and the Attorney and Carr play'd as they had agreed before; the Attorney had lost 30 l. upon which he offer'd Carr the Note in the Presence of the Woman of the House, which Carr took, and told the Attorney, if he'd go and take a Dinner, it being Dinner Time, he'd go and receive the Note, and return him the Overplus; accordingly they all went to the Three-Tuns in Fetter-Lane , where they din'd, after Dinner Carr went with the Note, using this Expression, Fortune be my Guide! Sands went and staid at some Distance to see how Things went, and Ramsey being uneasy he likewise follow'd, but before he got down to the Door, Carr return'd, and told them the Thing was done, only wanted signing; which (as Ramsey said) with much Persuasion he agreed to; then Carr went back and received the Money, and brought it to the Three-Tuns aforesaid, at which Place they all four agreed it should be equally divided, which they accordingly did among them four, viz. Carr, Ramsey, Sands, and the Attorney.

After this they agreed to seperate some Time, in order to change their Dress, and to 'meet in the Evening at the Dog-Tavern , Garlick-Hill ; whereupon they seperated, and accordingly met at the Place appointed. After they had supp'd and drank plentifully, Carr being much elevated, insisted that the Attorney should draw more Notes ready for the next Day, and as he ventur'd to unlock the Door, as he phrased it, somebody else should venture to enter the Room! meaning they should go with the other Notes; but one of the four expostulated with him, and told him, such an Affair of so much Consequence requir'd some Consideration, and therefore they ought not to be too rash. Carr told them, they could not be in too much Hurry in an Affair which was like to prove serviceable to them all; but the other reply'd, too much Hurry would ruin all; whereupon Words arising they quarrelled, and separated for that Time, agreeing to meet the next Day; but Carr meeting a Lady of Pleasure, he failed meeting according to Appoint

ment, but the other three met, and not seeing Carr, one of the three sat down after Dinner, and forg'd a Note of 137 l. which he persuaded Ramsey to go with, but he not much approving of it, put them off, telling them, that as Carr was not in the Way it would very much irritate him, so he judg'd it not proper; but one of them representing to Ramsey, that Delays were dangerous, and tho' Carr was out of the Way, yet he should have his Share, for it should be deposited in Ramsey's Hands; but he still refusing, they all three parted for that Time, agreeing to meet the next Day.

The Attorney was fearful by Reason Carr's not meeting according to Appointment, sent for the Note by somebody else, and then went into the Country. Carr and Ramsey went to several Places to find him, but not hearing of him; so Carr and Ramsey continued in London five Weeks after, till Money being a little short, Carr proposed to Ramsey to Forge another Note; but Ramsey represented the Danger of such an Udertaking, told Carr it was but five Weeks since he received the 75 l. Note, and doubtless some Intelligence was given to Mr. Hoare; but Carr said he would not venture, and if Ramsey would not go, he himself would Forge one and go; be the Danger and Glory all his own!

Accordingly Carr came to Ramsey's Lodgings, and there forged a Note upon Mr. Hoare, sign'd, William Payne , for 25 l. in Carr's natural Handwriting, and desired Ramsey to Endorse it, which Ramsey with much Persuasion did. The next Day they met with one Mr. Pat - son, who Carr and Ramsey had been acquainted with some Time before. They met at Mr. C - n's Coffee-House in Bow-street , who keeps a Billiard-Table; where Pat - son took Carr aside, and told him, that his Father was under an Arrest, and he did not know what to do to help him. Carr told him he had a Note in his Pocket, which if he'd go and receive, he would lend Pat - son's Father as much Money as would pay the Debt he was Arrested for. Upon which, Pat - son took the Note, and said, he would go with it immediately; so Carr and Ramsey went along with him, and staid at some small Distance. Pat - son offered the Note, but it being late in the Evening, was turned back; this was on a Saturday; on the next Day (Sunday) Carr and Ramsey agreed to dine with Pat - son, at his Father's House in the Hay-market , where Pat - son seem'd to be uneasy that Carr would not go with the Note himself, and asked the Reason of it. Carr told him, that the Note came from a young Gentlewoman which he was to marry in a Day or two, and that she had pick'd it out of her Father's Pocket; and likewise he received one Note, which she gave him, which he said was got in the Manner aforesaid. Pat - son then asked, why Ramsey could not receive it. Carr told him Mr. Hoare's People knew Ramsey, and if he should go, and the Money shall be stopp'd, then it would be discovered, and inevitably Ruin the young Lady: And likewise told him, if he'd go and receive it, the Money would soon be made up by the Lady, and she had contrived so, that her Father would never find out the Deceit, and if he would agree to go, Carr would lend him 5 l. and likewise pay the Debt his Father was Arrested for; by the Persuasion, Pat - son agreed to go. Ramsey and Pat - son lay together that Night, and on the Monday Morning early, Pat - son was to go with the Note; accordingly Pat - son took the Note of Carr, and went with it; Carr and Ramsey went to George's Coffee house by Temple-Barr , at which Place Pat - son left Carr and Ramsey, and went out in order to receive the Note. As soon as he was gone, Carr propos'd to Ramsey to follow, that in case the Note was stopp'd, they might have an Opportunity of getting off; so they follow'd him, and waited opposite Mr. Hoar's, to see the Event! which in some small Time happen'd; for the Note was stopp'd, and Pat - son was asked how he came by it; who told them, he had it from two Gentlemen who waited at George's Coffee-house near Temple bar So Mr. Hoare's Servants came along with Pat - son, towards George's Coffee-house, which Carr and Ramsey observing, being on the opposite Side of the Way, made their Escapes, went over the Water to Rotherith , from which Place they sent a Friend to see how Matter stood, which Friend inform'd them when she came back, that Pat - son was taken, double Iron'd, and committed to the Poultry-Compter . So Carr propos'd to stay some time to hear how Matters went, and then to go off disguis'd, which Ramsey agreed to; they accordingly concealed themselves a short Time, and then find

ing themselves advertised in the Papers, pursued their Intent of going off disguised, which they accordingly put in Practice by disguising themselves in Sailors Habits, and bundling up their Linnen and Cloaths, and carrying them at their Backs, they went towards Chester , in order to get Shipping for Ireland; but before they had got half-way to Chester , Money grew short, and they was in as bad a Plight as before; but meeting on the Road about 12 Miles on this Side Coventry , with a miserly old Fellow that had been a Master Waggoner several Years, they told him, that their Father was a Captain of a Ship, and that they had met with a Misfortune by having their Goods seized upon the Road, which Goods was Tea and Brandy that he had not paid Duty, to the Value of 49 l and they was going o Chester , and should not know what to do, nor how to get so far. Thomas (for so was the Waggoner's Name,) putting up at Coventry , and seeing Ramsey and Carr the next Day dressed very genteel, agreed to lend them what Money they wanted; which Ramsey told him ten Guineas would just be sufficient, and he would give him Security for it, and a Token, which Token was a Mother of Pearl and Brass Snuff-box, and directed him to a fictitious Name in Cheapside , which Person he told him, upon that Token would pay him the ten Guineas, and give him two Gallons of Rum, and withal, desired him to relate the Circumstances of his Goods being seized by the King's Officers.

Thomas told him he would faithfully perform all he desir'd, and railed prodigiously at the Officers; but at the same Time took great Care of the counterfeit Snuff-box, and sealed it up in a very careful Manner. Thomas travelled with them as far as Birmingham in Warwickshire , and then took his Leave; Ramsey desiring him to take great Care of the Snuff-box, which he promised faithfully he would. As soon as Carr and Ramsey left Thomas, they proceeded on their Journey to Chester , which in a small Time they reached, when they arrived there, the put up at the Sign of the Three Royal Oaks , intending to stay there till an Opportunity offer'd to go for Ireland ; but Money growing short, Ramsey pretendey he had Draughts upon one Mr. Murray at that Place, but that they was not quite due. Now where we lodged, the Woman was a Widow, she fell in Love with Ramsey's Person and Behaviour, telling him he was welcome to what Money he wanted, which he said was about six Guineas; the Widow soon open'd her old Chest, and told out the Sum required, which he told her should be faithfully paid as soon as he receiv'd his Draughts on Mr. Murray.

Ramsey and Carr having Intelligence that the Wind stood fair for Ireland , gave the old Widow the Slip, taking their Bundle with them, intending to go to Park-Gate, and from thence immediately to Ireland; after they had given the old Woman the drop, and went to Park Gate , the Ship called the Race-Horse was gone off about four Hours before they reach'd there, in order to sail for Dublin ; so they lost their Passage, and Ramsey thinking it unsafe to stay any longer there, agreed to cross Eastham Boat-house , to go to Liverpool , at which Place he proposed to take Shipping for Ireland , which Carr readily complied with; but as soon as they came to Eastham , the Boat was gone off, and they Halloo'd! but could not make the Boatmen hear, which Noise of Halloing brought the People out of the House, among whom came out Sands and the Attorney, who was concern'd in forging the Note of 75 l. with Carr and Ramsey.

Now he and Sands had been there some Days before, and as soon as they saw Carr and Ramsey, they was so confounded they could not speak; at last they embraced one another with much seeming Friendship, and on account of this accidental Meeting, Sands told Carr and Ramsey, that they should remain there that Night, which they readily complied with, proposing to do something the next Day, which might prove serviceable to all Four.

They got very much in Liquor that Night, and the next Day when they arose, Ramsey and Carr ask'd Sands what made him and his Companion leave them in so sly and scandalous a Manner? Sands told Carr when he quarreled with his Companion at the Dog-Tavern on Garlick-Hill he was fearful, and imagining by his Speeches that he intended to do Mischief, he proposed to Sands to receive the 237 l. Note, and to go off, also telling him, as Fortune had so ordered it, that they had all met together, they would contrive to make the best of a bad Market, so they consulted, and agreed that Sands and his Compa

nion should stay at Eastham , and Carr and Ramsey should go on their Journey to Liverpoole , as soon as they had taken their Leaves of each other, they set forward on their intended Voyage to Liverpoole , not long after they was gone, comes in accidently a Person who related the Story how the poor Widow was served at Chester , and describing the Persons, the Landlord's Son ask'd what Reward would be given if he could get the Money, he answered the old Woman would give a Guinea, whereupon taking no farther Notice, but the next Day he came over to Liverpoole , and when he had found out where Carr and Ramsey was, he told them what he had heard concerning the old Woman, and insisted upon their Re-payment of the Money they had borrowed which they could not do, by Reason it was very low with them both, but for fear the Thing should make a Noise, they pawn'd both their Watches and passed him.

When this was done, the next Day Ramsey was at a Loss how to raise Money to subsist, they having but 5 Guineas left, and finding there was several Billiard-Tables in the Town, to these he resorted, not doubting but he should raise a sufficient Supply for both. In the mean Time Sand's Companion, who had order'd Part of his Goods to come to Chester , directed in his own Name, for at Eastham he passed by the Name of Roberts, went to see if they was come, and going to Chester , happen'd accidentally to put up at an Inn where some Gentlemen was who had seen him at Eastham , and knowing him again, called him by the Name of Roberts; who should be in the Kitchen drinking, but the very Waggoner who had brought the Laywer's Things from London, which he knew nothing of; he being dressed Pretty gay, made the Waggoner take Notice of him, and hearing the Gentlemen call him Roberts, now Roberts (as he called himself) after he had staid at this Place sometime, went to the Inn where the London Waggon put up, to enquire after his Things in his right Name; the Waggoner who had seen him before at the Place aforementioned, and having read the London Evening-Post, gave the Waggoner some Suspicion, and he for farther Intelligence ask'd him if his Name was C - , who answer'd, Yes, then says he, I must deliver them to a Gentleman of that Name, who was formerly a Clerk to a Gentleman in Serjeant's-Inn. C - said he was the Person, then says the Waggoner, Sir you are my Prisoner, and immediately calling for Assistance, apprehended him upon the printed Advertisement which he had read before, and C - being carried before the Collector, was by his Indulgence carried to a House, instead of a Prison, till the Thing was farther examined into.

Now Sands having some Intelligence of this Affair, went to take a Horse out of the Stable to go off, but was hindred by the Man to whom they owed Money for Board and Lodging; but he passing for Robert's Servant at the House, the Person of the House went with him to the Collector (now Sands had before read the Papers, and found he was not advertis'd) as soon as they came to the Collector's House, Sands told him, that he could soon prove who his Master was, and all the Circumstances that was represented, false, if he would grant him the Favour of giving Orders that he should have a Horse; which the Collector upon hearing this Story consented to, and ordered Barnes, the Keeper of Fastham Boat-house to let him have one. So Sands took his Master's Mare, and rode clean off.

Ramsey and Carr being at Liverpool , heard not a Word of this Transaction, but stay'd expecting C - every Day, and they being likewise advertis'd, was by the means of the Person who kept the Boat-house taken at Liverpool , and committed to the Tower; by this Time, News came down to Chester , that C - was the real Person advertis'd; so he was sent from the Place where he was, to the North-Gate . Carr and Ramsey was much indulged where they were committed at the Tower; and it being a large Place, where the People of the Town used to frequent twice a Week to play at Cards, Dance, &c. they were indulg'd to see those Diversions, and being not much taken Care of in the Day-time, they was more watch'd at Night, and People lay in the same Room along with them; and one Night there being a Wall repairing, they took that Opportunity to make their Escapes, which they effected by giving the Persons, who lay in the same Room with them, Punch mixed with Laudanum, and in the middle of the Night they got off by the Help of a Ladder over a Wall 15 Feet high, and travelling all Night, they arrived the next Day at a Place call'd Runcom, where is a Boat which Ferries Passengers over to Wales ; the

Persons that Ferried over this Boat being in Liquor, obliged them to wait seven Hours, which was the Occasion of their being taken; for being up all Night, they as soon as they crossed, went to a House and fell fast asleep; and there being a Hue and Cry, they was taken and closer confined, till they was removed from thence by a Habeas Corpus to Newgate , and being * tried for this Fact, C - was capitally convicted, and Carr remaining upon a special Verdict, died in Newgate before the special Verdict was argu'd.

After Mr. Ramsey had given his Evidence against C - and Carr he was discharged from his Confinement, and went to Bristol , and as he was walking up Corn street , who should he meet but one † Snowd, whom he had formerly seen at London; they was bo much surprized at the Sight of each other, and so confounded that they did not speak; but Snowd pass'd on, and put up and din'd at the George Alehouse , in the same Street, where Ramsey coming accidently the same Afternoon; they was both extremely surprised with a second accidental Meeting, and immediately called for a private Room; as soon as they was by themselves, they imparted to each other their own Affairs, only Snowd concealing the real Cause of his Absconding; told Ramsey, that it was something that was of great Concern, and even touch'd his Life, but would not make any farther Discovery. They push'd the Bottle pretty briskly about, and being very merry, consulted how they should live in a strange Place; at last, be thought themselves of the following Stratagem.

There was at that Time, in the Town, Parson W - ley, who was a great Methodist, and likewise a great Friend to those who followed him, and was sincere in his Way of Thinking. Accordingly they agreed to wait on the Parson next Day at his Lodgings, and telling him a very dismal Story of their forsaking all their Friends and the little they had in view at London, they came down to Bristol, purely for Conscience Sake, in order to hear his Doctrine, and to enjoy their Religion quietly, which they could not do at London, they was so much persecuted by their Friends, and esteemed by their Acquaintance as Mad-men. The Parson embraced them with a great deal of Tenderness, asked them several Questions, to which they had their Answers readily; and told them, that he was glad to find they had such good Notions of Religion, and that he would do them all the Service that lay in his Power, in order to their becoming Christians in reality, which till then he told them, they only profess'd the Name, but not the Meaning. This done, they all three went to Prayers, and the Parson made them a Present of a little Book, call'd, The Life of God, in the Soul of Man; telling them to peruse it carefully, it containing very necessary Instructions concerning their future Happiness; and farther, that if they pleased, they might after one Months Trial, be admitted as one of their Brethren, and belong to their SOCIETY.

The following is the Manner in which they were admitted; they was brought before the whole Society, which was then kept in Ballance-street; and after shewn to all the Brethren, who commonly meet once a Week, they was desired to meet twice, 'till their Month was compleated, with one or more of the Society, who are old Standers, and are called Leaders of Bands. They went according to one of these Bands, who met with some Members, and where asked the following Questions by their Leaders.

Are you in Love?

Are you married?

Have you received Remission of Sins?

Does the spirit of Self bear Witness with your Spirit, that you are born of God?

Do you desire to become as a little Child?

Do you desire to keep any Thing? Is your Sins a Secret?

To which Questions they giving satisfactory Answers, were in a Month's Time admitted into the Society, as Members, which was done as follows.

The Parson having a List of the several new Members Names, who wait at the Door, proposes them as proper Persons one by one, then if the Members make no Objection, they are

* Ramsey was an Evidence against C - s and Carr, see Sessions-Paper, No. 5. Page 89. in the Mayor alty of Sir John Barnard .

† He was tried with one Joseph Wells , for robbing one Mr. Hull, on the Highway, see Sessions-Paper, No. 2. Part 2d. Page 60. in the Mayoralty of Sir John Salter .

immediately admitted, and the following Verse Sung upon their Entrance by all the Members.

Still let thy Love point out his Way,

What wondrous Works thy Love hath wrought;

Sill lead him least he go astray,

Direct his Work, inspire his Thought,

And when he falls, soon may he hear

Thy Voice, and know that Love is near.

As soon as Ramsey had gone through his several Degrees, and was admitted in the Manner before mentioned; his next Step was to come at the Money, which they commonly keep by them in large Parcels, which was usually gathered every Evening at their public Societies and expounding Places. He took so much Care, with regard to his Behaviour, that he soon made the Parson think he was very sincere, so was introduced amongst the chief of the Methodist's, where he commonly took Care to enquire which of the Brethren had most Money, and was the most bigotted to their Principles; by this his artful Insinuation, and modest Behaviour, he soon gained much Esteem, and was look'd upon as a reputed Saint.

Parson W - y lodging in High-street, at Mr. W - ld's Sisters, thither he often used to resort, at which Place all the Cash was kept for building two Houses, the one in Kingswood, the other in Town; he having free access to the Parson, used to pretend he had Qualms of Conscience which often troubled him; the Parson used to pray for his Deliverance; after praying some considerable Time, he was left to meditate by himself in the Room where the Money was kept; so whilst the Parson went down Stairs to pray with somebody else, he used to stuff his Pockets pretty full with Silver; by this means he had always Cash enough in his Pocket ready, if a Discovery was made of his Insincerity, to brush off with.

He was always sure to frequent those public Places where there was often a gathering made, and likewise was ready to stand after the Prayers was over, in order to help gather the Money, which was often distributed very liberal; as soon as the People was all dispersed, he, Judas like, carried the Bagg, which he was sure to lighten very much before he got Home with it; he having plenty of Cash always, was sure to appear clean and neat every where wherever he went. At last, by these careful Methods, he insinuated himself into Parson Whit - d's Brother's Company, who was very fond of him, and he being a good Marksman, soon discovered the Parson's Brother's Infirmities, which ingratiated himself very much in his good Opinion. He used very often to have frequent Disputes with several of the Gentlemen and Clergymen of that Place, who often gave him Preference in Point of Learning, for he was a very good Scholar.

But to return to Parson Whit - d's Brother, he was so linked in with him, that every Thing that Ramsey said was a Law; he soon discovering Thomas's blind Side (for that was the Parson's Brother's Name) he took greater Freedoms with him, and was less Cautious. One Adventure happening, occasioned the Town Talk, and was like to be the downfal of Ramsey. Snowd and Ramsey being very merry one Night over a Bottle, which was done by stealth, for nobody knew of it, it being reckoned a very heinous Crime to drink hard amongst those Sort of People; they in short got so much in Liquor, that they scarce knew each other, Ramsey left his Companion Snowd upon a Tomb Stone in St. James's Church-Yard dead drunk, and himself real'd Home in a very dismal Condition; as soon as he came to the Door, he knocked hard, and who should come to let him in, but his Landlady, who accosted him in the following Manner: Hey Day! Who is here? the sanctified Methodist, where's your Companion? Ramsey could scarce Answer, but at last belching and vomiting in her Face, he made Answer, he was safe a Bed; so he was sure enough, for he was so dead drunk, that he fell sound a sleep, as if he was in a down Bed; but he had not long enjoyed his Repose, before he was seen by some Gentlemen upon the Sneak, who strip'd him; when he awoke, he started up, and in that Condition, marched towards his Lodging about 5 o'Clock in the Morning; as soon as he came to the Door, he knock'd aloud and disturbed Ramsey, who remembring the last Nights Transactions, went down and let him in; this Affair had like to put an End to Ramsey's pretended Sanctity; but he putting a grave formal Face upon the Matter, soon reconcil'd Things, and was in as great Repute as ever.

Another Transaction of this Nature which almost over turn'd him was this; the Parson's Brother, which Ramsey nick'd nam'd the ORATOR, who took Ramsey for a young Gentleman of For

tune, seeing Ramsey one Day pull out a Purse of Gold, which he seemed to despise as Dross, the Orator, that is Parson Whit – d's Brother, desir'd Ramsey to lend him five Guineas, which he said should be return'd in a small Time; but Ramsey lov'd his Money too well to part with it in that Manner, made some frivilous Excuse, and told him he had promised to give it all to the Poor; which much nettled the Orator, who getting very merry that Evening, and meeting Ramsey at a Tavern playing at Hazard, with the same Purse of Money he had before show'd him; upon which he asked him, If that was given his Money to the Poor? Ramsey being confounded, answer'd him very civilly, withal desiring him to sit down and take Part of a Bottle, which the other refused, and went out immediately merry as he was to his Sister's, which was not far off, to whom he made a comical Story of Ramsey (who at that Time went by the Name of Robert Gray ) that he was got Preaching of the Doctrine of Faith, over Box and Dice at the Tavern.

Ramsey suspecting the Orator was gone out to do him a Prejudice on account of his not lending him the Sum he requested, immediately follow'd him, and being pretty sober, and the other very merry, made his Assertion pretty good, so got off till the next Morning, for Whit - ld had, tho' much in Liquor, made the Case pretty plain against Ramsey: in the Morning they both appear'd before the Parson, but Ramsey had got the Tavern Man on his Side, who positively denied what they other had asserted, and so he got off for that Time; tho' the thinking Sort secretly thought he was guilty, and look'd more sharply after him, which Ramsey soon saw, and having got as much as he could, thought proper to retreat, before he was more found out. And while he was thinking of retreating, an Accident happen'd which prevented him for that Time, for Parson W - y being invited over to Bath to Preach according to his usual Custom, every Tuesday Fortnight, persuaded his Brother Ramsey to go along with him, who could not deny his Request for fear of any Suspicion with regard to the Money which he had purloined at Times from the common Stock, who accordingly went.

When they arrived, W – y preach'd a Sermon on Predestination, and Ramsey officiated as Clerk, who in the middle of the Sermon, espying a Person who knew him, retreated with the utmost Expedition to an Inn at Bath , to which sometime after W - y coming, ask'd him the Reason of his sudden Hurry, in going away in the manner he did? Ramsey told him the Words he spoke in his Sermon was so moving, and had such an Effect upon him, that he was obliged to go away, or he should have fainted away in the Place.

Ramsey in the Time of his Clerkship got acquainted with a Girl, who was formerly a Quaker, and who had lately turn'd Methodist, persuaded her that Money was but Dross, and she having 100 l. in her own Hands, that she could not be saved unless she gave it all to the Poor. The Girl eager with the Desire of becoming a good Christian, readily consented that Ramsey should dispose of all her Money as he thought proper, which he did you must be sure, and gave a very good Account how he had bestow'd it, which was as he told her distributed among the King's-wood Colliers. When he had thus inveigh'd the Girl out of all her Money, he pretended that some Affairs of Importance called him to London ; and taking a formal Leave of all his Brethren at Bristol , particularly the Parson he made the best of his Way to London .

When he came there, having some Money by him, proposed to go upon the * Mace, and letting a Friend into the Secret, they dressed themselves very Gay, and went towards Grosvenor-Square , where pitching upon a House to their Minds, they looked at it, and found it was for their Purpose, and understanding that one Mr. B - t an Attorney had the letting it, upon which Ramsey and his Friend S - d, went to him, and laying their Story close together, by telling him that Mr S - d, who passed by the Name of Alexander Good , Surgeon , who had been brought up regularly at the University of Leyden , soon came to an Agreement, and took the House for a 12 Months certain, and a Quarters Warning. Their next Step was to furnish this House, which they contriv'd in the following Manner, they waited on Mr. B - w, an

* The Mace is perform'd by Confederacy, one or two Persons take a House, and then get wht quantity of Goods they can upon Credit, and then go off with them.

eminent Upholsterer in Golden-Square , to whom they pretended they had taken a Lease of such a House, naming the House they had actually taken near Grosvenor-Square . Mr. B - w told them he should be glad to serve them with such Goods as was in his Power: they lost no Time, but employed a Carpenter to fit up their Shop, a Smith to do the Iron Work, and a Bricklayer to make a Sand-Heat, &c. for an Apothecary and Surgeon; in the mean Time they was not idle, but contracted with all the Workmen they could to make all Things compleat.

Whilst these Things was in Agitation, their next Step was to get what Goods they could in Credit, in order to convey a Way to make Money off; they sent for several Tradesmen to furnish the House in a genteel Manner; and in particular a Glass Man, whom they agreed with for Pots, Phials, &c. Their next Contrivance was for some Goods, as Moveables, in order to raise Money. Their first Exploit of this Nature, was upon a Wine-Merchant, near Cannon-street, him Mr. Ramsey waited on, and told him that he had taken a large House in order to follow Business, more for Pleasure, than Profit, and that he should have much Company, usually kept large Quantities of several Sorts, but desired some as Samples for the present Use, which was sent immediately in by the Merchant. The next Thing Mr. Ramsey did, was to take Care to Order the Servant to distribute the Wine out Liberally, as he might be thought a Gentleman of great Generosity.

The next Person Mr. Ramsey waited on, was a Sword-cutler near St. James's-Palace , where he amused him with a Story of a Marriage, and pretending his own Sword which was a Silver-hilted one, (and which he hired for the Purpose) was not good enough; agreed with the Sword-cutler for one of Gold, the Sword-cutler shewed him several, at last struck up a Bargain for one of 15 Guineas; this Mr. Ramsey order'd to be sent to his House, and pretending he had not so much Gold about him, but would be at Home at such a Time; the Sword-cutler and Mr. Ramsey parted with much Complaisance, and he waited according to the Time; when he came, Mr. Ramsey you must be sure was out of the Way, but there was a Servant ready to receive the Goods, who told him that his Master was gone to such a Lord's, naming a great Gentleman's Name, who liv'd at some Distance from the House, but had left Word he would be at Home, according to the Time appointed if possible; so desiring the Man to walk in, he introduced him into the Parlour, which was furnish'd for the Purpose in an elegant Manner, and presently the Servant disappeared, designedl, leaving the Sword-cutler to contemplate on the Furniture and Beauty of the Pictures; in a small Time after, he returned with a Bottle of French Wine, and made a low Congee, and said his Master had ordered him to do so in order that he might regale himself, 'til his Master's Return. The Sword-cutler after Drinking a Glass or two, and finding Mr. Ramsey did not return; and having Business to do, knock'd for the Servant, and asked what he would have him do; who told him that his Master to be sure would take it as a great Affront if he did not leave it; which the poor Man searing to disoblige his new Customer, presently complyed with, and he begg'd the Favour of the Servant that he would give his humble Respects to his Master, and begg his Pardon a Thousand Times, that he could not stay any longer at that Time, but would be sure to wait on him shortly; the Servant told him he would take Care to deliver the Message; but added, I would not have you come too soon, Sir, for fear my Master should think it is not in your Power to trust him, for he hates any thing Little, or Mean; the Sword-cutler thanking him for his good Advice, promis'd him he would not, so way he went.

The next Day Mr. Ramsey waited on a Woollen-draper, and agreeing for a Quantity of Cloth, which came to upwards of 15 l. told the Gentleman he had not so much Money about him, but desired him to send it, and the Bill of Parcels to his House, and he would be at Home, naming a particular Time, and desiring the Woollen draper to be exact, he promised he would, and so they both parted with great Ceremonies; the Woollen-draper sent his Porter, and a Bill of Parcels punctual to the Time, and affixed under the Bill a Receipt. The Porter coming to Doctor Ramsey's House (you must understand he told the Woollen-draper he was a Doctor) and knocking at the Door, was presently let in, and asked if the Doctor was at Home: The Servant said his Master was that Minute sent for by Dr. C - den in order to be present at an Operation in cutting a Gentleman for the Stone; but (says he) Friend, if you have any Thing, you may leave it. Ay! says the Porter I'll leave it, but - But, What you Blockhead? if my Master was at Home, he'd kick you out of Doors for your Insolence,

in offering to make a Doubt of answering him immediately to the Purpose.

Oh, Dear Sir! (says the Porter to him) I hope you won't let the Doctor know, I only made a Scruple of leaving the Bill, which has got a Receipt; its very well, very well Friend, (says the Servant) I'll take no Notice now, but I wou'd advise you to take Care of your Behaviour for the future; so taking the Bill and the Cloth, the Porter went his Ways.

The Doctor's Creditors (whom he had unfortunately taken in) coming to thick one after another to the Door, it was his Servant's whole Employment to dispatch them; for as yet they were ignorant of the Cause of his keeping so much out of the Way; at last the Storm growing pretty hot, the Servant thought proper to retreat, for fear a random Shot should hit him; so the House was left alone to answer for itself.

The Doctor no sooner saw his Scheme lost, and thinking London to hot, once more retir'd to Bristol , and when he came there, found Things was not in so good a Posture as when he came from thence, and imagining he could do nothing with the rest of his Brethren, turn'd the Tables, and went immediately to a certain great Man, and made a formal Recantation; and likewise hop'd he would subscribe to a Book which he intended to write against the Methodists, which he promised him he would.

While he was writing this Book several of the Methodists understanding his intentions, dissuaded him from it, as he pretended to him; but in Fact this was only to get what he could of them, and when he could get no more, he went on with his Book as fast as possible.

During this Transaction, another Accident happen'd, which made him once more quit Bristol , with as much Precipitation as he had done London, which was this: Going one Day to a Friend's House who was a Methodist, and taking the Advantage of his Absence, pick'd open a little Lock, after which opening a Draw, he took five Guineas, but the Person coming Home soon after, missed the Money, and judging no body could have it but Mr. Ramsey, presently made a strict Enquiry if any Body in the Town had seen him, at last heard of him at some Places where he had been; Mr. Ramsey hearing he was smoak'd, presently withdrew; and blam'd himself for not taking a good Gelding which was ready saddled, in order for him as he pretended to go another Way.

This Accident obliged him to move off towards Bath , and the next Day to Marlborough , and so on to London . He had not been long there, but one of the Persons who he took in for Goods upon the Masonry Lay had him Arrested, and he was put into the Marshalsea , where he lay some Months, till a Gentleman paid his Fees, and had him discharg'd; he went then by the Name of Robert Gray : After he was discharg'd from his Confinement, he and his own Brother went and committed the following Robberies, viz.

About seven Months ago, he and his Brother went into one Mr. Boyce's House at the Golden-Bell , and stole a Silver Cup and Pepper-box.

About eight Months ago, he and his Brother went into a House at the upper End of Red-Lion-Street , about 8 o'Clock in the Morning, and stole out of it a pair of Silver Candlesticks, Snuffers, and Stand.

About five Months ago, they took out of a House in Princes-street , Bedford Row , about eight o'Clock in the Morning a Silver hilted Sword.

About six Months ago, they stole out of a House in Little Orange street , Red-Lion-Street , about 4 o'Clock in the Afternoon, a Silver Cream Pot, a Silver Tea Pot, a pair of silver Tongs, a Strainer, a Silver Spoon, two Salt Spoons, and another Silver Spoon double gilt.

About seven Months ago, they went to a House the lower End of Red-Lion-street , about 4 o'Clock in the Afternoon, and took out of it, a pair of Silver Candlesticks, a large Silver Cup, and a Pepper-Box.

About six Months ago, they went into a House the middle of Red-Lion-Street , and took out of it, a Silver Tankard, and a large pair of Silver Buckles.

About seven Months ago, they stole out of a House in Soho-Square , about 8 o'Clock in the Morning, a Silver Saucepan, and two Silver Tea Spoons.

About eleven Month-ago, they stole out of a House the middle of Frith-street , a Tea Chest, a Silver hilted Sword and Belt.

About seven Months ago, they went into a House in Devonshire-street , Queen's-Square , and stole out of it a Silver Pint Mug.

About six Months ago, they went into a House in New-North-street , and brought out of it a Silver hilted Sword and Hanger.

About seven Months ago, they went into a House in Rathbone-Place , and brought out of it a Silver hilted Sword.

About six Months ago, they went into a House in Pall-Mall , and stole out of it a Tea Chest, containing about a Pound of Tea.

About five Months ago, they stole out of a House in Soho-Square , a Silver Candlestick, a Silver Snuff-pan, and a Cane.

For the Good of the Public, it was desired by this unhappy young Man Mr. Ramsey, that all Maid Servants for the future, when they are washing their Doors or Steps, or when they go out of Errands, not to leave their Doors ajar, but take Care to shut them after them.

The last Robbery which he committed, and for which he suffered for, was committed in Company with his own Brother, who turn'd Evidence against him, was for robbing Mr. Glynn of Hatton-Garden , of a large quantity of Plate.

The following LETTER he sent sometime before his Execution.

Mr. EDWARDS.

I Suppose that you will be surprized when you find that this comes from one, that you will never see again; - I mean your unfortunate Friend Robert Gray , as you thought by that Name; but what shall I say, when I tell you, it is not so. Oh! blame me not! I am now by the just Judgment of God and Man, under Sentence of Death. May the Lord Almighty forgive me in my last Hour, and suffer no Pains of Death to fall upon me. It has not been my own Choice, but the Will of God be done. Whatever Injuries I have committed at Bristol , with Tears in my poor Eyes I ask Forgiveness. Oh! my Friend, could you but guess or think what Agonies I feel I am sure you would pity me; may my Father which is in Heaven, pity me likewise. - I should be glad to hear from you, and that quickly. Pray give my Love to Mr. Thompson, and all my Acquaintance, particularly Mr. Swain. My dearest Friend, Adieu. I rest,

Your unhappy Friend, RORERT RAMSEY .

P. S. You may direct for me in my Cell in Newgate , January 2d, 1741-2 I desire you will ask Mr. Noble his Forgiveness for what I so unjustly deprived him of.

The following LETTER Mr. Ramsey receiv'd the Evening before his Execution.

Jan. 12. 1741.

Dear Friend.

THE important Concern about which we spoke together this Morning, is so deeply impressed upon my Mind, that I can't refrain writing to you a few Lines to remind you once more of the preciousness of that Redemption which the eternal Son of God had made for us, when he shed his Blood upon the Cross, which is indeed a weighty Matter, and which the Enemy of our Souls tries all possible Ways and Means to divert our Minds from meditating upon, especially when we are upon the Brink of Eternity; even our worldly Friends and Relations are oftentimes his Instruments, and by their own Fondness and Affection, quench and stifle those Convictions, and that Grace which our dear Saviour is never wanting to bestow upon the Purchase of his Blood, even our precious Souls; especially at such mementous Conjunctures.

The Way of Salvation is indeed a short an easy way, as the Apostles mention'd to the Jailor and our Saviour has often declared himself, but I doubt not of your being fully convinced of this, that it is not a national Faith, or a meer Saying, I believe, that will save us, but must be the Faith, which is the Gift of us, but must be the Faith which is the Gift of GOD, and wrought by the Inspiration of the

holy Spirit. O! my Friend, cry unto the Lord, and that instantly, that he may bestow this precious Gift upon you, before these few Moments are spent which are left you.

I remain your sincere Friend, and well Wisher for your poor Soul,

R. Brown.

Tuesday, Jan. 12. 1741.

After Mr. Ramsey had hung the usual Time, he was cut down, and his Body was convey'd to a Coach, which was there waiting for that Purpose, to carry him to one Mr. Kitchen's in Three-Horse-Court , Gilpur-street , near West-Smithfield ; after he had lain from Wednesday Two o'Clock, he was carried on Friday Evening, about Eight o'Clock to St. Mary Staines , near Goldsmith's-Hall , and there interred.

What has been said is not intended to blacken his Memory, or deprive him of the Pity which naturally arises in every Man's Mind, on those who fall Victims to Justice and Law. The Design of these Accounts is to benefit the Living, the Dead can receive neither Good nor Hurt from them. It is to be hoped, that such as have only enter'd on the Paths which brought this unhappy Man to his Ruin, will see by his Example, what themselves must come to, if they do not bethink themselves in Time Without Question, the inordinate Love of Pleasure, the Contempt not only of Religion, but Decency, the shameless Debauchery of Night-Houses, and the open Practice of GAMING, so notorious in this present Age, have a strong Tendency to mislead Men to their Ruin: And therefore, the Sacrifices made by the Law ought to be well explain'd, as the best and almost only Means to deter others from the like Practices. Reputation is quickly lost, hardly ever to be recovered, and when it is lost, People are apt to run Headlong into the most dangerous Practices, in order to procure Supplies for their Necessities and Pleasures, not apprehending how high a Price they may one Day pay for their past Follies and ill Conduct.

N. B. The Dying Speech of James Hall , for the Murder of his Master John Penny , Esq ; of Clement's-Inn , and for which he was executed at the End of Catherine-Street in the Strand , on September, 1741. And also Two Volumes of the Lives of the most remarkable Malefactors for 40 Years last past, may be had of the Printer of these Speeches.

FINIS.

ADVERTISEMENT.

The following Letter was sent to Dr. HENRY in Hatton-Garden, next Holborn, from a Patient, a Gentleman of known Veracity, who for the Benefit of Others in this Disorder, desires it may be made publick, which the Reader may take in his own Words following.

SIR,

I Have the Happiness to inform you, that I am in all Appearance entirely cured of my terrible Headach, and nervous Disorder, which had so grievously afflicted me for two Years successively; I have not perceived the least remaining Symptoms of it these six Months past. The present Health I now enjoy, compared with the Memory I still retain of my insupportable Disorder, is so joyful a Change to me, that it would be the greatest Ingratitude should I longer delay to return you my hearty Thanks and Acknowledgment in this publick Manner, who, under God have been the Restorer of my Health, even beyond what every one thought possible, or could have any Reason to hope for.

I here send you a true State of my Illness, to the End that those whose Unhappiness it is to be so afflicted, may, by reading what you have done for me, be encouraged to try the same Advice and Remedies, which if they do, they may safely promise themselves the same Success.

The first beginning of my Illness was going to the East-Indies , for I was Mate of an Indiaman : The first attack was when I crossed the Tropicks, whether it was the Heat of the Place, or the Change of the Air, I know not; but when I was in that Country, I was extremely bad, and came Home in that Condition, expecting my native Country Air would have been of Service to me. I applied to the most eminent Physicians, who only told me it was a nervous Complaint, produced from Excess of Heat, which had stagnated the Juices of the Brain; and after Blistering, Bleeding, Cupping, and a deal of other Means, there was hardly any Relief. It would rage to such a Degree that I was almost distracted; at length it turned to a Vertigo, Giddiness, and Swimmings of the Head. My Pain was mostly in the hinder Part, with beating Noise of Wind, but at Times would lie with such a Weight upon my fore Part of my Head and Eyes, that I was afraid I should entirely lose my Sight; all which affected the Nerves, as brought a Paralyrick Trembling and Weakness all over my Body, with sometimes Convulsions; and the Use of my Speech much impared: I had no Rest Night nor Day, but was huried with confused and irregular Thoughts; my Stomach and Bowels would swell with Wind, then would fly to the Head, and bring on most of the aforesaid Disorders, with a strong Palpitation and trembling of the Heart. This was my miserable Case, and tho' a young Man, had given over Hopes of a Cure, 'till a Gentleman who had been almost in the same Condition as mine, and cured by your nervous Medicine, advised me to apply to you, as the only Person for the Cure of nervous Disorders, which accordingly I did; and sent for a Bottle of your nervous Medicine, with the Pills and Cephalick Snuff for the Head, which cost me Seven Shillings, and was presently relieved: so in a Month's Time I was entirely relieved, freed from my Disorders, and have not taken any Thing these six Months, and have no Apprehension of my Illness returning; for which I return you my most grateful Thanks, under Divine Providence, for my present happy State of Health, which is entirely owing to you.

SIR,

Your obliged humble Servant.

WILLIAM CLARKE .

Near the Parsonage Woolwich , Sept. 1741.

