THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the FIVE MALE FACTORS, Who were executed at TYBURN , On MONDAY the 12May1755, BEING THE Third EXECUTION in the Mayoralty OF THE RIGHT HONOURABLE STEPHEN THEODORE JANSSEN , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, Etc.

BY virtue of the King's commission of the peace, Oyer and Terminer, and jail-delivery of Newgate , held before the right honourable Stephen Theodore Janssen , esq ; lord-mayor of the city of London , the lord chief justice Rider, Mr. justice Clive, Mr. baron Legge, William Moreton , esq; recorder , and others of His Majesty's justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the city of London, and justices of jail-delivery of Newgate, holden at Justice-hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday the 9th, Thursday the 10th, Friday the 11th, and Saturday the 12th of April, in the 28th year of His Majesty's reign, Francis Pryer , John West , William Powel , William Darlow , alias Barlow , William George , and Joseph Gould , were capitally convicted, and received sentence of death accordingly.

Their behaviour, as far as I saw, during the time between conviction and execution, was quite composed. They appeared to pray heartily, when at prayers in chapel, and attended constantly every day, when not hindered by sickness; and it has pleased God to afflict them all at times, except Pryer and West.

On Tuesday the 6th instant, the report of the six malefactors was made to the lords of the regency by the recorder of the city of London, when they were pleased to command that execution should be done of Francis Pryer , John West , William Powel , William George ,

and Joseph Gould , on Monday the 12th instant. And,

At the same time it was their lordships command, that William Darlow should be respited, till their lordships pleasure touching him should further be made known.

1.2. Francis Pryer , and John West , were indicted for stealing 4 cloth coats, value 4l. 1 pair of cloth breeches, value 8s. 1 cloth waistcoat, value 20s. 3 Russia drab frocks, value 28s. the goods of Leonard Lee ; and 1 cloth coat, the property of Thomas Jenkins , in the dwelling-house of the said Leonard.

3. William Powel , was indicted for stealing 1 grey mare, value 4l. the property of William Hutchinson .

4. William George , was indicted for that he, on the king's highway, on Wassey Sterry did make an assault, putting him in corporal fear and danger of his life, and stealing from his person 11s. in money numbered.

5. Joseph Gould , was indicted for stealing 70 pair of shoes, value 5l. the goods of James and John Mazarene , in the shop of the said James: and John.

1. John West , aged 17, was born in the parish of St. Paul Covent-Garden , of parents but in low condition in the world, and he was brought up till about 11 years of age, in the aforesaid parish charity school. Then, he says, he was put out apprentice to a cabinet-maker in New-Street , Covent-garden , with whom he remained about 18 months; during this time he had begun pilfering, and says, the first thing he ever stole was some brass weights out of a chandler's shop, and several such little petty thieveries, while he lived here. He says, being a very unlucky boy, and not minding his master's business, he got himself frequently corrected, which at that time of day he looked upon as ill treatment. This at last he resented so, that he run away from his master; but not only this treatment from his master was the cause of his elopement, but thro' the solicitations of William Banks , his first companion, to whom he used to complain when his master beat him, he was also persuaded to leave his master, and they two and others began now to go upon the thieving order every night.

West's father was a journey-man plaisterer , who, after a while, pre-vailed with his son to leave his companions, and to go home with him to work; and he says, when he gave his mind to work, he could get 10d. a day. But the spirit of idleness was frequently too strong,

and prevailed over his inclination to industry. However, he says, he did not quite break out for 12 months, but all that time Banks, and other companions, were continually teizing him, till they got him away again. Soon after his father died, so that he had no body to return to but his mother, who took no great notice of him. 'Tis the custom, he says, amongst these unhappy wretches, if they know of any boy, that has once been a thieving, never to let him rest, if he pretends to retire, till they have him out again upon the lay.

He had now by frequent robberies made himself uneasy, and was under fear of being brought to justice; so taking the advice of a friend, he resolved to go to sea. And having got a birth to the West-Indies , he took to the sea-faring man 's business so readily, that his master gave him what encouragement he could, and used all means of persuasion to get him to stay in that way. But returning from the West-Indies to London , he was not long before his former companions found out the young sailor; and after helping him to spend what little money he had got, 'twas not long e'er they persuaded him to follow them to the same practices as formerly he had done.

'Tis six years ago, he says, since he first began to go a thieving; and shop-lifting was the chief attempt of him, and his companions, in which he had been so very successful. (tho' scarce a day past he was not concerned in one of the greater, and less account) that yet he never once got into trouble as he called it (the usual phrase of these sort of people when apprehended for felony) till last October sessions.

He was then indicted, and tryed with two others at the Old Baily , for a robbery committed upon Joseph O'Brian , coming from Knightsbridge to London , where he was knocked down, and lost his wig. The prosecutor acknowledging himself to be drunk at that time, and giving but a very bad account of the matter to the court and jury, the three prisoners were acquitted.

West owned the fact however, and said that they did attack O'Brian with a design to rob him, and took away his hat, and some small matter of money, and that James Harriss knocked him down, who was very much given to strike, if any the least opposition was offered to his attempts to rob. But, as the prosecutor was so stupid, as not to be able to tell the day of the month, nor so much as the month when this

affair happened, his escape at that time might be owing to want of evidence to support the indictment.

Having thus luckily escaped, he having no thought of being thankful to God, or of keeping out of the way of such danger for the time to come, returned again to the old place of rendezvous, and met his old acquaintance. After drinking together an houror two, (for 'twas towards the evening when he was turned out) he says, he and others went out, and committed a robbery near Marybone . He says, as fast as he got any money he squandered it away, having always some companions of the viler sort, both male and female, waiting at his lodgings, or other places of resort, for his return, which was scarce ever without some booty. For he was reckoned one of the most artful little rogues in the ways of contriving to bring about a design of shop-lifting of any of them all.

He says, as observed before, that scarce a day pass'd on which a robbery on the high-way, or in a shop, was not by him committed. And at the sessions in February last, we have him an evidence against one of his accomplices, William Banks , who first, he says, seduced him from his master, and afterwards plunged him in all manner of robbery and wickedness. And yet, when Banks was apprehended he sent to West, to come in voluntarily, and turn evidence against him, lest somebody, that might swear harder, should be produced against him.

So West, having been concerned with him in diverse robberies, gave account of several robberies, none but what were liable only to transportation. Tho', he says, he might have hanged him, had he not had more regard for him, notwithstanding he was the first and chief instrument of leading him on to his ruin.

Upon two of the robberies he gave information of at that time, indictments were found and tried; in which West deposed, that he and Banks going about the streets in Tyburn-road , to see what they could get, he went into a hosier's shop, and stole several bundles of stockings, amounting to 27 pair, and sold them for 8s. and 4d.

And, being out together upon the same account the 1st of January, loitering all day in Moorfields , at night he and his companions went into a cheese-monger's shop in Goswell-Street , and stole two Cheshire cheeses, and a firkin of butter; one of which and the firkin West took out of the shop himself. The two cheeses, and firkin of butter, he says, they sold it a woman in

Parker's-lane, St. Giles's , as they did also the stockings; but persists in it, he knew not her name.

West and his companions lurking places and haunts were chiefly at Marybone , Tyburn-road , and the squares about that part of the town, tho' now and then they made excursions to other out parts of London, and almost every night some body's property fell a sacrifice to their ravaging geninuses. Their booty was still squandered away in disorderly houses, and company, and at last he was taken in one of the msot infamous places, and in a house where, by general report, no other sort of people resorted but pick-pockets, hosue-breakers, and shop-lifters, to get rid of stolen goods, the purpose, West says, he and his companions went there for.

2. Francis Pryer , says, he was 22 years of age, was born in the parish of St. Giles's in the fields . He was the unhappy offspring of a family that lived in good reputation in Oxford-road , and he might have been better brought up than he was, if his own inclinations had not crossed their good intentions for him. He was put to school, he says, but what was bestowed on him in that way was all in vain, he being of a disposition not inclined to instruction, or advice; he says, he has no reason to complain of want of care in bringing him up, but for want of grace, and faith to believe that others knew what was best for him, rather than himself. His father, he says, was never wanting to take what pains he could to bring him up in the fear of God, but to no purpose; as soon as he was out of hearing, he forgot all good impressions attempted to be made on him; which unhappiness, while under conviction, he very much lamented, and, as far as I find, was thoroughly sensible of his unworthiness and folly, in having so long turned the deaf ear to all friendly admonitions; and agreeable to such a way of thinking, did he demean himself all the while till he suffered.

He was put out an apprentice to a pump-maker , he says, in Tyburn-road , but did not serve out his time, having left his master about three years ago; since which time he has worked as journeyman with several of the trade at Deptford , Ratcliff and Wapping ; and last Summer, he says, he worked constantly at Execution-dock in that business, till after Michaelmas. Having been loose, and too much given to idleness before, now, he says, he began to fall into bad company, which had never happened to him before. Coming to see his friends and ac-

quaintance about St. Giles's , he fell in company with West, Cane, the evidence against them, and one Randolph Banks , not yet taken, who is said to be gone to sea . With these he unhappily joined forces, and went a robbing with one or other, if not all togethr, almost every day in the week. In abundance of robberies he owns himself to have been concerned, but says, he always avaided abusing any body, nor would he suffer others to do it in his company, as West testified of him; who said, he believed Pryer had prevented much mischief being offered and done. Having thus brought pryer and West together, we are to look into some of those actions, in which being concerned together, their joint ruin as to this world succeeded. Pryer was in custody in February sessions, when West was evidence against William Banks , who was transported the very day the report was made last, and the warrant for execution signed. But, tho' West knew many a robbery pryer had been concerned in, yet would he not give information against him; so for that time he got his liberty again, for want of evidence and prosecution.

But not so fortunate was the next time: as did his partner and fellow sufferer, he soon forgot the danger he had been in, and went on a fresh score; till at last he was taken in St. Giles's where he now frequently was seen, and chiefly resorted; upon information of an accomplice. Cane, who was also an evidence against him.

An information was received from a watchman of the parish to which it belongs, against a house in Blackboy-alley ; upon which, the high constable, and some other constables, with a file of musketeers, went there, and first met with Cane; who, upon terms of being admitted an evidence, informed them of the goods which were lately stolen from a shop near the Bull and Gate in Holbourn, and which the robbers were come there to dispose of. Accordingly, upon search, the goods were found, and West being there, was taken into custody, together with one Wright, who were taken before Mr. Fielding. The prosecutor being acquainted with the goods being found, came to the justice's, where they were, and swearing to them, West and Pryer were committed for stealing, and Wright for receiving. An indictment for this fact being preferred to the grand jury, was found, and after a fair trial thereupon, Pryer and West were capitally convicted, having nothing to say in their defence. But Wright had the good luck to escape, which West advises may be a warning, and

says, had he not had the encouragement he had from the receivers, who would take all they brought, tho' at a low price; as witness the goods now we are talking of, for which was given only 45s. little more than a quarter part of the value they stand at in the indictment.

West says he took them out of the prosecutor's shop, and gave them to Pryer, and at Banks's mother's 'twas resolved that Cane and West should go and sell them to Wright.

West was a second time indicted for stealing, on the 13 March, 14 pair of worsted stockings, the goods of John Harrison . Upon this indictment West was tried, and making no defence, was convicted. He was tried on this indictment, in order that the receiver might be convicted too, if he was found guilty. West was, upon full evidence of Cane and others, found guilty, and Winnifred Farrel , for receiving the stockings, knowing them to be stolen, was found guilty, and transported for 14 years, according to act of parliament for that purpose.

Pryer was also a party in the robbery, but somehow or other left out of the indictment, when both acknowledged to be a fact by them and others committed.

This company committed diverse robberies more than they could recollect, or more than they woud remember; but the robbery of William Taylor , from whom several leaden weights were taken, which Wright received, they both did own.

Also stealing 15s. from William Hooker , and a hat from Peter Galliard , besides various other robberies and felonies, which they were both afraid and ashamed to own particularly, but generally did not deny.

Pryer after conviction behaved very well, but West not quite so well. Pryer, tho' ignorant to the greatest degree with respect to letters, and having scarce ever seen the inside of a church, shewed greater degrees of contrition than did the rest who died, and was a youth of an active mind, tho' wrongly applied. Had either of them taken a proper turn in their tender years, there was understanding enough in either of them to have made useful members of society. But a certain ememplary dissoluteness seemed to have taken hold of them both, and no danger of loss of life, or liberty, had any effect to put a stop to their way of life. West says he was so thoughtless, as not to trouble his head about being hanged, till he was convicted. And Pryer says, that he was generally kept

in liquor, so that his senses were lost to all thoughts of what might be another day.

Such young and tender plants, 'tis pity they should grow in soils which send forth such exhalations as must be the cause of nipping them in the bud. And but that we too frequently see it, we might hope, that by means of such salubrious laws and customs as this nation is possessed of, a stop might somehow be put to such numbers of youth, searce entered into the world, having it in their power to destroy, and throw away life, before they are acquainted with the value of it.

What was the bane of these two poor wretches, was their too early initiation into the company of dissolute and disorderly persons, before they were acquainted with, or had considered the consequence which entering into such a way of life would produce; not but that they knew what must one day ensue upon detection of such crimes, as they suffered for committing. But, had they, when they begun, had the same thoughts which afterwards haunted them even to their last moments, they declared their fears might have prevented them. But when they had become hardened by frequent undiscovered acts of opposition to laws, human and divine, they found themselves so become enemies to society, that they could associate with none but those of their own stamp.

They both died in all appearance, and from their own declarations, penitents, and hoping their examples might prove a warning to the young and unwary, desired security for their happiness hereafter, under the mercies of God, promised alone in the merits of Christ.

3. William Powel , said he was 25 years of age, being born in Grosvenor-square , in the parish of St. George's Westminster . He was brought up pretty well (his father dying when he was young) by his mother, who was housekeeper to a worthy gentleman, and looked after his domestick affairs when the family went into the country. When he was about 15 years of age, he was inclined to go to sea , and put himself into the hands of a master of a ship, in the coal-trade , in which he continued for three years; after which, he sailed to the East Indies in a fleet of ships during the late wars abroad, he says, from the year 1742 to 1749.

When he came home, being bred to no business, which is a misfortune too frequently attending those unhappy men who come to such unfortunate ends, he lived upon what he had got by hardships and dangers at sea, in an easy

and trifling manner, till all being gone, and having no friends to assist him, he was obliged to apply to such means as offered, to get subsistance, and was glad to follow any employment, when and where he could get it.

Being tired, he says, of such employment as he met with in town, such as helping in stables , and going of errands , he at length resolved to go into the country; and not knowing where particularly to go, he stroled the country, till he came down into the isle of Ely , where he picked up employ; sometimes one, sometimes another way. Sometimes, he says, he worked in vessels , that pass the river up and down, from Lynn to Ely , and sometimes he worked on shore at husbandry labour , as he could get into employ, till he got to be ostler at the Griffin-Inn , at a place called March in the isle of Ely ; from whence he took the mare, for stealing which he was indicted, and deservedly convicted.

He has since been very much afflicted with sickness, and sometimes delirious. At his intervals, and since recovered, he acknowledged the justice of the sentence he lay under, and declared his hearty sorrow for what he had done. He owned the stealing the mare, and selling her; but when he did it, he had no thought of what would be the consequence.

He married in the isle of Ely , and things not going well with him, he had a mind to come up to London , to go on board a ship. And, he says, he took the mare out of the stable for expedition sake, and proposed to send her back from smithfield , by the drovers, that came from thence, but was persuaded to sell her, which he did, being in liquor. He says he was offered twice the money for the mare, more than he sold her for, eighteen miles off, before he came to London ; which, he said, was proof he did not intend to sell her, had he not been over persuaded, and in liquor. He acknowledged however, in all circumstances, the justice of the law in the punishment he received; and hoping God would forgive him what he had done amiss, upon his repentance, died resigned, in expectation of life in happiness hereafter, thro' the merits of him who died to save sinners who repent and turn to him.

4. Joseph Gould , aged 23, says he was born in Bow-Church yard in Cheapside, of parents who gave him no education; he was bred up several years in idleness, and at last put out apprentice to a shoe-maker in the Mint , Southwark ; where he had not been a long time, before he robbed his master's house of goods to a considerable value, and went off. His master suspecting it must be Gould that had robbed him, made search after him, and with difficulty at last found him. But Gould was stubborn, and denied he knew any thing of the matter. The master, in danger of being ruined by the loss, in order to persuade him to own the fact, and let him know what was become of the goods, promised to say no more of the matter, if he might but have his goods again. After a

while, upon his master's earnest intreaties, and saying, he must be ruined if he suffered the loss, Gould told the truth, and the goods were recovered to the master's great joy.

In a short time after, he took himself away from his master's service, before he had learned any thing of the trade, and was an idle boy about London streets, for a long while. Having no trade, nor any body to take care of him, he lived by picking pockets, and stealing any thing that came in his way.

About three years ago he was tried at Kingston , for a felony committed at Guildford in Surry , and convicted in order for transportation. But his friends interceding for him, his punishment was changed from transportation to whipping, and he underwent a severe whipping, thro' the town of Guildford .

About eight months ago he was committed to Clerkenwell New-prison , for felony, but at the sessions was discharged for want of evidence. He had the good fortune thus to escape for many years; and tho' he made no doubt. he should one day or other be surprised, and suffer for all, yet he comforted himself with hopes, that whenever it should be that day came, his punishment might be only transportation. And, he did say, when he found himself capitally convicted, he hoped he should not be hanged, but if he was transported for life, he should not mind it. For a long while he persisted in it that he knew nothing of the robbery for which he suffered; but having been severely afflicted with sickness, and dreadfully frightened at the thoughts of suffering death, he chose at last to acknowledge that, and several others, committed by him, and one George Edwards , about the Royal-Exchange .

He says, whatever he did in the way of thieving he was always very private in, and never had an accomplice till this time; when, for about a fortnight, Gould, and his companion George Edwards , broke open, and attempted several houses, about the Royal-Exchange .

They attempted Mr. Mazarene's shop, in Sweetings-alley , one night before; but not having proper implements about them, they could not get the door open, but were forced to give over the attempt, and resolved with themselves to try what they could do another time.

On the 1st of March they made another attempt, and being better prepared for it, succeeded. About five o'clock in the morning, they came to the shop again, and by the help of a long knife, and pick-lock key, which Gould says George Edwards had provided, they opened the door, and getting into the shop, shut themselves in. They had provided also themselves with two bags, one a long one, the other shorter. Into these two bags they put almost all the shoes in the shop, to the amount of fourscore pair. They also opened a drawer under the cutting board, but finding nothing but papers, they contented themselves with their booty of shoes; and George Edwards bore away the long sack, and Gould the shorter, and carried them to

Edward's house in Phoenix-Street , Spitalfields , where Gould had lodgings. He remembers it was about five o'clock in the morning when it was done, he says, because while they were in the shop, the watchman going his round, beat at the door, and cried the hour.

They disposed of some of the shoes that day to by a Sunday's dinner, and on Monday morning Gould took a pair of second hand shoes to man in Field-lane , which he fold for 3s. While he was making the bargain, a person came to the shop to acquaint Mr. Murray of the robbery of Mr. Mazarene's shop. Gould heard what was said, but was silent, and so infatuated after all to take Mr. Murray home with him, and shewed him a large quantity of shoes, which he pretended to bargain with Gould for, that so he might have an opportunity to detect him. He pretended to go home, and fetch the money, and then come and take the shoes away; instead of which, he went directly to Mazarene, and acquainted him with what he had seen.

Mr. Mazarene, having received the account of Mr. Murray where his stolen goods were, went to Sir Samuel Gower , and got a search warrant, and went to Gould's lodgings, where Mr. Murray had been before to see the shoes, where they found Gould and the shoes. When he was carried before Sir Samuel Gower , he pretended he found them on a bulk in Bishopsgate-Street ; that he carried one half one time, and came back again to fetch the rest. George Edwards was also before the justice, but Gould then declaring him innocent of the affair, that he knew nothing to all of it, Sir Samuel thought proper to discharge him, but committed Gould to Newgate .

The reason he gave since conviction, for clearing Edwards, was, that he had a wife and children, and she was then big with child, and he would not inform against him, left his being in trouble should hurt her, in the condition she was in drawing very near the time of her travail. But, as Edwards immediately made off, and never came to his succour in his distress, he resolved to tell the truth, or else all would have died with him. And had it not been for the prosecutors's bounty to him, after conviction, being very ill, he might have starved, and died before the time of execution.

After he had once began to open his mind, he confessed three other robberies in particular, and said, that for a fortnight before he was taken, he and Edwards had every night attempted some house or other. not far from the Exchange. They broke open a hatter's shop, and stole several hats, the same night they first attempted Mr. Mazarene's shop, and missed their aim. They were resolved however not to return errandless, for all was fish that came to the net, and hats that were in general worth a guinea, or five and twenty shillings, they disposed of, and pawned, one for seven shillings, another for six shillings, and a third for five shillings, in and about Goodman's-fields. Gould was prevailed upon to tell where he had pawned them; and there were found, three hats, as he directed, which as

I'm informed, he has obliged the pawnbrokers to bring home to his shop again. The terms, I hear also, they readily complied with.

Another night they broke open a man's shop in Spread-eagle court, who is a taylor, and stole from him a laced coat and other things. The coat, by Gould's direction, I'm told, he recovered.

A poor woman's shop, who is also a taylor in Christopher's court, he says, they broke open, and stole a blue coat, a pair of black velvet breeches, and several other things, which he did not recollect. The breeches, he says, he sold to a woman that cries old cloaths in the streets, whom he knew not; but the coat the poor woman has recovered, by his direction.

Several other shops, he says, they attempted, but did not succeed. Being asked, whether in carrying away their booty (as what they did get did not lie in a small compass) they never were seen, or interrupted by the watch? He replied, they did meet them sometimes, but were never molested. Particularly, the night they robbed Mr. Mazurene's shop, and carried away seven dozen pair of shoes in bags upon their shoulders, they met the watchman in Bartholomew-lane, who took no manner of notice of them, not so much as to ask what they had got with them.

After he had thus disburthened his mind, he grew better in health, and more lively and being sensible the fate he was to suffer was no more than his crimes had in justice deserved, he died resigned, in hopes of pardon thro' Jesus Christ.

5. William George , said he was 23 years of age, that he was born at Froome in somersetshire , of parents who rented a small estate, and brought him up to husbandry labour , after having given him what small share of education their circumstances would admit of. In the 12th year of his age he left his father and family, he says, and has been in London ever since, having only made a journey or two into the country to see his friends. When he first came to London, he took up with what employment he could get for a livelihood, being utterly destitute of friends or money. He says, like many other foolish boys, having once heard of London, he thought there was no living well elsewhere; but that, instead of finding the streets paved with half crowns as he expected, 'twas a long while before he could get a good meal's meat.

He, after a while, became a waiter , in the new phrase, or drawer in the old, to a public house, and went from one place to another, 'till he got to live at cook's shop , where he might have done very well, and did a long while, 'till he took it into his head about five years ago, to marry , since which time those who knew him say, he never did well.

He was obliged to leave his service, 'tho very much against the inclination of the person he was servant to. And afterwards he took up what they call the duffing trade , to sell tea , and strong liquors, about town and country, to put a blind to his other methods of going on in evil practices, which he followed for two or three years past.

About eight months ago he got a hurt in his left arm, which rendered it useless to him for some time. And he made use of that as an argument, why he should not attempt to go upon the highway. But, 'twas only pretence, for tho' he could not use it so well as before, yet it was not so useless at the time he went on his exploits, but that he might have made use of it to support a pistol, when his other hand was otherwise employed. When he was taken, tho' the people robbed in the Birmingham coach did not positively swear to him, they all did believe him to be the man. The horse, that he rode, they were positive in swearing to, which horse, both the owner and his servant swore he had hired at the time the robbery was committed. He went out with the horse the morning the robbery was committed, and time enough to be at the place where the robbery was committed, and the evidence against him was strong enough to persuade the jury of his guilt, and justly he was convicted. He was in a great hurry and fright after receiving sentence, and soon seized with such horrors, as threw him into a strong fever, so that he was delirious for sometime; and his wandering thoughts, were in that condition, were still busied in talking of his wretchedness. But when he was little recovered, and consulted about the unhappy methods he had taken to bring himself to that unhappy condition, he refused to acknowledge his guilt, tho' urged to it in the strongest terms. He continued to the last in but indifferent health, tho' sensible of what was said to him, but would not directly own the fact; tho', before he died, in the morning of the fatal day, he would not deny it. I'm sure he had some evil counsellors about him, tho' I could not find out certainly who they were, yet I had a shrewd suspicion. During the time of his having the horse our, the Exeter and Salisbury Stage-coaches were robbed by a person, who seemed not perfectly to have the use of his left hand, as was his case. Being desired to put the question to him, 'twas done, but he would neither own, nor deny. Of all the unhappy of this fort, I ever ment with, I scarce ever met with one so obstinate, or who shewed so little inclination to make appear that he had any proper sense of the evil ways which had brought him to that shameful and ignominious death,

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Monday, the 12th instant, between eight and nine o'clock in the morning, William Powel , Joseph Gould , and William George , in one Cart; Francis Pryer , and John West , in the other; were drawn to the place of execution. They were not there long, before they were tied up to the fatal tree; and the some time was employed in praying for, and with them, recommending their souls as usual to the Almighty's protection, and mercy. Soon after which, their caps being pulled over their faces, the cart was drawn from under them, while they were heard to call on the Lord Jesus to receive their souls.

This is all the Account given by me,

JOHN TAYLOR ,

Ordinary of Newgate.

