THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and last dying Words of the Malefactors, that were Executed at Tyburn, on Monday the 31st of December, 1722.

AT the KING'S Commission of the Peace, and Oyer, and Terminer, Holden at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bayly, on the 5th, 6th, and 7th of this Instant December; before the Right Honourable Sir Gerard Conyers , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London, the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice King, Mr. Justice Eyre, Mr. Baron Page, J. Raby, Esq; Deputy-Recorder, &c. Three Men and Two Women were Convicted of Capital Offences, viz. Edmund Neal , William Pincher , John Harriot ; Sarah Nut , and Mary Burroughs ; of these, three receiving his MAJESTY's Gracious Reprieve; the two former were order'd for Execution.

During the time, that these unhappy Malefactors lay under Condemnation, it fell out, that those of them who suffer'd Death, as deserving it most, appear'd to me to be most in Expectation of Life; having settled in themselves a wrong Notion, that the Nature of their Offence was to be measur'd only by the Money they took from the old Man. And they were the less able to be Effective in their Duty, as they had, by an habitual idle Course, in a great measure lost that Ability to read which they once possest; but as they were furnish'd with good Books, that Unhappiness was repair'd by one who read to them in the Place of their Condemnation. Tho' they all profess'd, and indeed show'd an Inclination to Repent of a vicious Course of Life, and regarded whatever was inculcated into them, yet during the publick Prayers in the Chappel, having so much addicted themselves to Idleness and Play, that they could not abstain from it, or force themselves to be wholly serious for one Hour, tho' their Happiness for ever depended upon it.

Tho' frequently there are Complaints made; of the Interruptions given them, in the Place of their Confinement, these Men were no way disturbed by any prophane Prisoner among them, who not being dis

pos'd to be serious himself, is for preventing others from being so; and consequently had no Excuse, if they were not prepared for the Fate they justly underwent.

On Sunday Dec. 30, being the Day before their Execution, the Words in the Morning from which they were instructed, were taken from Galatians, Chap. 2d. Ver. 19.

I, through the Law, am dead to the Law, that I might live unto God.

And FIRST, We considered the Words according to the Tenor of the Apostle's Epistle, concerning the Necessity of Faith in Christ, and that no Justification can arise from our own Performances, independant of the interviewing Merits of Jesus Christ.

SECONDLY, We regarded the Text as applicable to Prisoners under Sentence of Death. And we here took notice in what Respect they might be said to be Dead; to wit, as to their Bodies only, there being Salvation to be found, after an ignominious End, upon sincere Repentance. Next, we observ'd what Reflections the surely foreseen Destruction of the Body, should occasion in the Mind of a Rational Creature, conscious of its own Existence, and assured, that it must enter thereupon into the Presence of the great Creator of the Universe, and be eternally Happy or Wretched, &c. 2dly, We took notice of what Actions the Consideration of the Dissolution of their Bodies should put them upon performing; and the great and especial Sedulousness which they in particular ought to evince, their Dissolution being so fix'd, and so approaching; Working out their own Salvation with Fear and Trembling. 3dly, Considering that they suffer'd through the Law, they ought to be more patient under their Calamities, they being agreeable to Justice and Preservation of Human Society; and also, what they might reasonably expect as the natural Consequence of their Proceedings. For be not deceived; God is not mocked; but look, whatsoever a Man soweth, that shall be also reap.

THIRDLY, We observ'd, that they ought to consider themselves, as suffering according to the Law, in Order to their living hereafter. As the Prodigal Son was reclaimed by Afflictions and Hardships, God intended to turn them from the Course of their Vices, by putting an Impediment in the Way, and preventing their accomplishing that Catalogue of Sins, which a longer Life might have made theirs. That they ought to be far from bearing any ill Will towards any one living: That they ought to be very thankful, that they had Time allowed them for due Repentance; and ought to praise God, for not cutting them off, by a sudden Accident, in the Hurry of their Sins, without Leisure or Space to make any Preparation for a future State.

LASTLY, We endeavour'd to direct them to receive the Holy Sacrament, to have an especial Regard afterwards to their Behaviour, to have neither too great nor too little Concern at approaching Death, but to resign themselves to the Dispensations of Providence.

The ACCOUNT of these Prisoners, while under Sentence of Death.

EDMUND NEAL , being indicted for assaulting Joseph Dormer and his Wife, by the Alms-Houses at Hoxton , about nine of the Clock at Night, on the 13th of November last, and taking from them

three pence three Farthings; Neal rifling his Pockets, and rolling him about on the Ground; (tho' very ancient) after William Pincher his Companion, had knock'd him down; of this Indictment they were by the Jury found guilty.

This Prisoner said, that he was under 30 Years of Age. That he was born at a Market Town in Warwickshire ; where his Father, altho' by Occupation a Blacksmith, was so much esteem'd by the best Men in the Town, that his Advice was demanded and taken in the chief Affairs relating to the Town. That he was wont to ride much about the Country, and being known to all the People of any Figure; his Company was acceptable to the best Man that dwelt in the Neighbouring Villages, whom he used to furnish with Horses for hunting, or give his Advice in purchasing them; and frequently attended them in their Diversions. But having a great Variety of Business upon his Hands, he gave his Son Edmund Neal but so slight a Notion of Letters, that for several Years he has been unable to read.

He added, That he had a very wrong Notion of Goodness when he was a Youth; for he thought Sunday an Holy-day for Mirth, observing, that some used to walk about with a Dog or two, and kill Hares, &c. on that Day: And that he thought drinking to Drunkenness, and swearing, and lewd Discourse, were what made him look like a Man of Account. For he was taken great Notice of by reason of his Father, and had then an Opportunity of keeping good Company, had he not chose the worst. And he believed, he had a Spirit in him, that would have led him to despise mean and vile Society; but in the midst of his Expectations, while he was endeavouring to improve himself, and to quallify himself for Gentlemens Acquaintance, his Friends he said blasted him at once: For after he had appear'd genteely, he was compelled to be Apprentice to a Taylor , which of all Occupations he disliked, and had ridiculed some who dwelt in that Town, and very much set them against him; who upon this made a Jest of him; and a young Woman, whom he fancied, did the same, and would not walk about with him, as she had sometimes done before. But altho' he had such an Aversion to his Business, yet he continued at it four Years: For there was a young Man that had lived at London, who work'd on the same Board with him, whose Company he much liked, as he used to tell him, how a Woman he kept Company with at London maintain'd him, by tricking other Sparks who kept her Company, and how she at last lodged with him, but soon after took all that they both had and ran away; also how she cheated a Merchant who kept her, when she was transported to Mary-Land; and of her returning from Transportation in Mens Apparel, &c.

But after this, he said, the Master he belong'd to dying for Grief, that his Daughter had taken a Fancy to an ill Man, and had disgraced herself and him: He was thereupon put to another Master, where he had several Opportunities of wasting his Master's Substance, and was got acquainted with several Fellows and ill Women in the Town, who sollicited him to feed them at his Master's Expence, while he was half the Night at a Publick House: That there was a Private Window, thro' which he could get in and out at any Hour of the Night, and not be heard, his Master having the Key of the Door in his Pocket: And if he had a Mind to let any body out of the House before Day-break, he could easily do it, while his Master was fast asleep.

After this, upon his Master's Failing, he was thrown upon the wide World, and found, that they whom he had relieved, would not support him; so that he said, he was just at his Wit's End, for he had not two Shillings in the World. But being thus abandon'd, a Woman accidentally met withal, asked him to go with her to London , for there was a fine Livelyhood for every body, but the Country was only fit for Plow-boys and Hog-drivers.

Upon this, he made for London, and found the Woman very kind to him, and ready to assist him on the Road; and he thought, that London was built of Gold and Silver. Upon his first arriving at his Journey's End, he continued for some time at only Publick Houses, and was used very badly by those whom he expected more Civillity from. So that here he said, he was in much more Distress than ever he had been in the Country; for several Women play'd scandalous Tricks with him, and went very near to the ruining him at that time.

He added, that he was sadly at a Loss, having no Acquaintance in the City or near it. But at length light to work with a Brewer in Old-street , where he continued some time. And afterwards worked at another Brew-house in Thames-street ; but carrying and recarrying Liquor to Houses, he thought an uncomfortable Life, and instead of being better, was worse than a Country Life. His Mind was set upon something of Gaiety, but how to find it, he knew not. At length, he went and offer'd himself to some Publick Houses, but they refused him, because he was not quick and lively enough. But after a short time, he got to be a Drawer of Ale at Sadler's-Wells ; upon which, he thought he was at once leapt into that Life of Pleasure, which he had so long retain'd in his Fancy: For the Thoughts of Musick and Dancing appear'd so very delightful to him, that in the Country, he always thought himself in some other happier World, when he and several young Men and Maids got together in a Barn, with a Fidler, to dance and be merry.

But he said, he was not thought very well of in his Place, for he could not wear off his Rustick Ways; yet if he went away, he knew not what would become of him: For tho' he had learn'd, how some young Men got a Livelyhood, yet he cared not to imitate them; because he had observed, how much they impaired and destroyed the Health of their Bodies, and became Beastly Creatures. So that intending more now than ever before, to lead a sober honest Life, he put himself to a Seller of Swine in Woods-Close , where he was well approved of, and continued in a regular industrious Way for several Years.

Upon an Accident that happen'd in his Master's Affairs, to which he said he no way contributed, he went and enlisted himself to serve his Country in a Man of War , call'd the Gosper; being a common Sailor, and never before used to the Seas, he suffered here very great Hardships; but especially once, when he was for a great while among the Northern Islands of Scotland , and his Provision very indifferent; and he often thought he should have perished with Cold and other Hardships, and a thousand times desired he might have that Fate. But he added, that when they were sent to Cruize between France and Ireland, to prevent the Pretender from Landing on the South of Ireland or the West of England , and if possible, to intercept and apprehend him in the Enterprize; he added, that then he fared much better, both as to the Coldness of his Situation, and the Goodness of his Sustenance, and other things.

However, he saw nothing delightful in a Sea Life, but thought it wretched to have every body an Enemy to every body, and pilfering from one another whatever the Hands could be laid upon, and no way of deciding a Dispute, but by Quarreling and by Strength. So that when the Rebellion in the South of Scotland and the North of England , was ended, he was very glad to be one of those who were discarded from his Majesty's Service at Sea; and returning again to London, was again employed that is former Work of taking care of Hogs ; in which business he said his Master found no Fault with him, but would even now declare, that he was a very faithful Servant; for that when he first went there, Money was several times left, to try his Honesty, which he never touched, and was afterwards entrusted with 20, 30, or 40 Pounds at a time: And at this Place he used to go sometimes to Church, which he was a perfect Stranger to before; but having forgotten all his Reading, he could not profit by the Sermons he heard.

He also said, that altho' he had before committed several Faults, he had not been long engag'd in the way of Robbing, nor had associated himself with any Fellows of that Stamp, but Pincher liv'd in the same Place with him, and they at first only talk'd of beating People whom they should find, because the World had always frown'd upon them, and every body was happier in Life than they: Adding, that as this Discourse was at the Hampshire-Hog , they drunk till they little knew when they went out towards Hoxton, what they were going about; but he believed all this was design'd for him by Providence, and might be for his Advantage in another World. But he said farther, that as it was Night-time, he did not know that the Person they robb'd was so very Ancient, otherwise they would not have us'd him so rudely; and that they abused the Woman in so base a manner only to prevent their being Discovered, and was it in his Power to make Restitution with ten Thousand Pounds, he would willingly do it.

He express'd himself, that he was Disorder'd before he Died, that he and his Companion in particular were included in the Dead-Warrant; and seem'd very much alarm'd at the instant Approach of Death. He seem'd very attentive, and desirous to inform himself in what related chiefly to his Eternal Estate.

WILLIAM PINCHER , was also indicted, and convicted of the same foremention'd Robberies, committed on the Person of Solomon Nichols , from whom they took two Half-pence and two Farthings, a Steelbox, a Knife, and a Tinder-box; and on the Persons of Joseph Dormy , and his Wife.

He was born in Norfolk , about ten Miles from Lynn ; where his Father being sent for a Soldier by a wealthy Malster in the Town, his Son William Pincher , about 6 Years old, was taken into his House in order to be brought up by him, in a sober and virtuous Way; he continued there 8 or 9 Years, and when a young Lad, had the good Fortune very well to please the Gentleman who took him into his Care; but afterwards delighting to be at the Ale-house in the Night-time, with young Fellows who kept ill Company. His Master was afraid to trust him in the House, as he believ'd; and some other Reasons causing a Dislike, he left the Country, thinking he could make his Fortune in London, and endeavoured to get up a small Sum of Money to put him

into a Way; but that soon being expended, he also took to the taking Care of Hogs , and could spend out of his Gaming Half-a-Crown a Night, among his jovial Companions; nor had he, he said, any Inducements to Rob, except the Instigations of the Devil, which put him more and more upon the Love of merry Company, till he became always uneasy in his Mind, when he was not at a Publick House with those he delighted in, who used oftentimes to say, that a brisk young Fellow need never be poor in London, let him spend as extravagantly as he would.

He acknowledged the Robbery for which he suffer'd Death; never failed the Prayers, but enquired very much into his Duty, by asking the Explanation of several Passages in Scripture, after he perceived himself included in the Warrant for Execution: He did not appear terrifyed at Death, yet had a becoming Concern; and said, he doubted not, but that his Suffering in this World would free him from suffering in the next; for he thought, he could truly say, that he had not mispent one Quarter of an Hour, after the Dead Warrant was carried to the Prison, yet would he only rely upon the Merits of his Saviour Christ. But yet he lamented himself with Tears before he died, upon the Consideration, that he might have been a prosperous Man in the World, and had brought himself, by his own Folly alone, to Death so shameful and ignominious; yet when he died, he appear'd with more Chearfullness, and with less Uneasiness about him.

This is all the ACCOUNT to be here given of these Dying Malefactors by

T. PURNEY, Ordinary, and Chaplain.

ADVERTISEMENT.

Just publish'd,

THE History and remarkable Life of the Honourable Col. Jacques, commonly call'd Col. Jack, who was born a Gentleman, put Prentice to a Pick-Pocket, was six and twenty Years a Thief, and then trapan'd to Virginia: Came back a Merchant, married four Wives, and five of them prov'd Whoes, went into the Wars, behav'd himself bravely, got Preferment, was made Col. of a Regiment, came over and fled with the Chevalier, and in now abroad, compleating a LIFE of WONDERS, and resolves to die a General. London, printed and sold by J. Brotherton and W. Meadows in Cornhil; T. Payne near Stationer's-Hall; W. Mears, and A. Dodd, without Temple-Bar; W. Chetwood in Covent-Garden; J. Graves at St. James's; S. Chapman in Pall-Mall, and J. Stagg in Westster-Hall. Price 5 s.

LONDON: Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bridewell-Bridge , in Black-Fryers .

