THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 25th of this Instant APRIL, 1733.

BEING THE THIRD EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon The Lord Mayor for the Time Being.

Number III. For the said YEAR.

LONDON: Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXIII.

[Price Six-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable the Lord Mayor of the City of London, for the Time Being; the Honourable Mr. Baron Comyns, the Honourable Mr. Baron Thompson; the Honourable Mr. Justice Lee; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London; and Justices of the Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at JusticeHall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, being the 4th, 5th, 6th and 7th of April, 1733, in the Sixth year of his Majesty's Reign.

Six Men, viz. William Gordon , William Ward , William Keys , William Harper , William Norman and Samuel Elmes ; and one Woman, viz. Elizabeth Austin were capitally Convicted by the Jury, and received Sentence of Death.

N. B. A Jury of Matrons being impannell'd, found this Elizabeth Austin with quick Child.

While under Sentence, they were exhorted seriously to prepare for Death, since upon the right employing their few remaining Moments, allow'd them by the lenity of their lawful Superiors, no less depended, then their everlasting Felicity or Misery in another World. I instructed them from these Words, And I heard a Voice from Heaven, saying unto me, blessed are the Dead which die in the Lord, from henceforth: you, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their Labours, and their Works do follow them. Rev. xiv. 13. I show'd them, that in this corruptible and sinful State, we are all liable to mortality, which proposition needs no proof, since we daily find it verify'd in our own experience, high and low, rich and poor, noble and ignoble, from the King sitting

upon the Throne, to the Beggar upon the Dunghill, all of us, without Distinction of Persons, or Quality, descending to the Pit or Corruption, and this in Consequence of the first Denunciation of God's Wrath against Sin, But of the Tree of knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it; for in the Day thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Gen. ii. 17. This was a Prohibition to eat of the Tree of knowledge of good and evil; our first Parents Adam and Eve transgressing this Covenant, they and consequently all their Posterity, by eating this forbidden Fruit, became liable to the Wrath and Vengeance of God, both in this Life and that which is to come, to Death, Temporal, Spiritual and Eternal; Temporal, by having the Body separated from the Soul, which was their case, to be expos'd to a shameful, ignominious Death, for the notorious Wickedness of their Lives; Spiritual, by being dead in trespasses and sins, and by being depriv'd of the divine Spirit, who is the essential form of a Christian, enlightning and enlivening and informing us, in all vertuous and laudable Actions; eternal, by being for ever shut out from the Presence of God, wherein consists the happiness of the Creature, and by being for ever expos'd to the Wrath and Vengeance of God, and eternally subjected to the Miseries of Hell Fire, for the wretchedly wicked Life, one has led in this World.

Notwithstanding this severity in denouncing the Wrath of God against impenitent Sinners, I show'd them that the divine Mercy interpos'd, and God so lov'd the World, that he gave his only beloved Son that whosoever believeth in him, might not perish, but have eternal Life. This is the Foundation of all our hope, of all our expectations, of all our desires; this is the Ground of our Faith in God and Salvation from him, that though we have sinned, yet we have an Advocate with the Father, even Jesus Christ the Righteous; and that he is the Propitiation for our Sins, and not for ours only, but also for the Sins of the whole World: That God hath laid help upon one who is mighty and willing to save unto the uttermost, all who come unto God through him, even up Christ Jesus, the Son of God, and Saviour of Mankind, that Rock of Ages, in whom whosoever trusteth, he shall never return asham'd, and who will prove a sure stay and support, to all wearied and distress'd Souls, under a deep Sight and Sense of the weighty Load of Sin.

Having thus inform'd them of their fall from God, and the Remedy provided by free grace, for recovering us from our lapsed State: I seriously exhorted them to a hearty Faith in Christ, even that Faith which purifyeth the Conscience from dead Works, and enableth us to serve God in Righteousness and true Holiness. Then

I advis'd them to a sincere Repentance for all their Sins, especially those notorious Crimes, for which they suffer'd, and which had brought upon them so much shame and sorrow: And in order to do this effectually, I exhorted them to try and search their own Hearts, if they were willing to renounce all Sin and to cleave unto the Lord, with full purpose of Heart and Resolution after new obedience; and to resign themselves wholly to God, as an holy, living and acceptable Sacrifice, which is their most reasonable Service: And whereas they had formerly devouted themselves to the Service of Sin and Satan, and to the Love of the Pleasures and Vanities of this Life, I admonish'd them, to center their Affections upon God, and to love him with their whole Heart, Soul, Strength and Mind. And in order to prepare them for the Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, they were instructed to examine themselves, with respect to the reality of their Faith, the Sincerity of their Repentance, and the ardency of their Love to God; and then if they found their Minds in a right Disposition, I let them see, as they had egregiously broken their solemn Vows, wherein they were early dedicated to God in Baptism, that it was now a necessary duty incumbent upon them, to renew themselves by Repentance, and to confirm their baptismal Vows, by partaking in the blessed Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, in which all the Benefits of the new Covenant are ensured, sealed and made over to us.

While these and many like Exhortations were advanc'd, they all behav'd decently and gravely in Chapel. Mr. Gordon, Ward and Elms made regular Responces; Norman had forgot all his reading, but was very attentive, often wept and profest deep Penitence: Keys was much afflicted with Sickness, but mostly came to the publick Worship, tho' not able to walk, but supported by others, Harper also attended: These two last were of another communion, yet were attentive both to Prayers and Exhortations; only Keys too often was taken up in looking and reading upon a little Manuel, in the Time of Worship, and sometimes Harper look'd on with him. They were all very quiet, but not so much affected, to outward appearance, as might have been desired.

Upon Monday the 23d of April, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of these six Malefactors under Sentence of Death, in the Cells of Newgate : when Samuel Elms , for assaulting Richard Stevens , Doctor of Physick , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a half Guinea, and a silver Spanish Dollar, on the 25th of January last; and for assaulting Eleanor Stevens , Spinster , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her 20 s. on the 20th of January last: and William Harper , of St. Mary at Still , for privately stealing a Bag, and six Guineas, and Thirty-nine Shillings from the Person of Matthew Monger ,

March the 9th, receiv'd his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve. The other Four, viz. William Gordon , William Ward , William Keys , and William Norman were ordered for Execution.

William Gordon of St. Margaret's Westminster , was indicted for assaulting Francis Peters , Gentleman , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Hat with a Crape Hatband, value 5 s. a Wig, value 40 s. a Silver Watch, value 4 l. a gold Ring, value 15 s. and 12 s. in Money, February the 26th.

INTRODUCTION.

THE Curiosity which the Publick generally expresses on Account of any Malefactors Actions, and the too common Practise of imposing fictitious and absurd Relations on the Town, to satisfy that Greediness of hearing their Exploits, has chiefly excited the Publisher of this Paper to procure the most authentick Notices, Hints, and Memorandums, which he possibly could, in order to gratify the Expectation of his Readers, with a tolerable Detail of the most extraordinary Passages in the Life of the late Mr. Gordon.

In doing this, we shall not go back to his juvenal Years, concerning which, we ingeniously confess, that nothing very remarkable has come to our Knowledge. The first Thing we are able to deliver concerning him being this: That an extravagant Vivacity of Temper, a Love for Company, drew him to a Narrowness of Circumstances, which left him but two Things out of which to chuse, viz. the abandoning his Pleasures (as he called them) that is, his Riots and Excesses, or hazarding his Life, and his Salvation, in following evil Courses to maintain them. And as too many do, he chose the Latter.

The Papers in our Custody do not enable us to give an exact Date of the beginning of his Expeditions; all therefore that is consistent with Truth that we can say about them is, that no Person was ever better qualified to make a Figure in that wretched Character of a Highwayman than the Deceased. He was a Man strong in his Person, and well limbed; and as to inward Accomplishments, he was bold to a prodigious Degree, had a large Share of personal Courage, and would fight resolutely on any Occasion.

Mr. Gordon's Temper had in it a great deal of Frankness, and it was occasioned thereby, that his Adventures on the Road were often attended with odd Circumstances. For he affected Generosity

in robbing, and fancying that there was something very grand in behaving handsomly as well as intrepidly on all Occasions, in fighting fairly, and robbing without shedding of Blood.

1. William Gordon , about Forty six Years of Age, of honest Parents, in the Bishoprick of Durham , had good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Arithmetick, and other Things proper to fit him for Business. When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Butcher , and serv'd out his Time honestly and with approbation, afterwards he followed the Business he was bred to, and married a Wife by whom he had some Children. He came to London , and set up his Business for several Years in Leaden HallMarket , and he also kept an Alehouse . In this Way of Life, he maintained himself and Family tolerably well, and for some time his Character was very good in the Neighbourhood: but he at last growing weary of close Confinement to Business, he took himself to the Highway, and while he kept on this Business, he never fail'd to raise Contributions on the Road, till at last he lost his good Name, and with all honest People, bore nothing but the Character of a Highwayman, so that every Body was affraid of him, and looked upon him as a common Enemy; at last he was taken up upon Suspicion, and admitted an Evidence against some others, some of whom he convicted.

Upon this he got his Freedom, and went to Ireland sometime after, there he contracted with one, who was famous in his Way, with whom he past his Time a good while in that Kingdom, but what there manner of Life was there, we cannot be positive, only it is to be fear'd, that it was none of the best, but agreeable to their former Course. With this Person he came over to England , and they two in Company were the most noted Persons, in their Way of raising publick Contributions of any in the Kingdom. His Companion being taken up, he commenc'd Evidence against another Man, who was executed. This Person was then set at Liberty, and Mr. Gordon and he inquiring about a Stage Coach by Times in the Morning, they were both taken up upon Suspicion of being Highwaymen, and the one met with Punishment for his Crimes; but no Evidence appearing against Mr. Gordon in Middlesex , he was carried down by a Habeas Corpus, to Chelmsford in Essex , where he was indicted for robbing upon the Highway, some Gentlemen, and the Clerk of the Fish-mongers Company; several of these Gentlemen swore to him, that they believ'd him to be one of the Men who rob'd them; yet two or three Coaches full of Evidences going down from London to Chelmsford , gave such Tokens of his being at Dublin , at the Time the said Robbery was committed, by producing of Letters, and shewing of Seals, which none there present could contradict, that the Jury

thought themselves oblig'd to acquit him, because, whatever they might believe of him, yet these Evidences created such a Confusion and Perplexity in the Affair, that they judged it best to let him pass. After this, he still prosecuted his unlawful and wicked Practice of going on the Highway; only, as he told, since that Time, being about three Years ago, he went to Ireland, and liv'd in or about Dublin for eight Months. There a certain Friend offer'd him a large Sum of Money, to set up Farming or Grazing in the North of England; but he likeing his old Trade best, came to his own Country, and despised such a generous Offer; so that it was a most deserved. Judgment upon him, after so many Deliverances, and so great a Mercy presented to him, to meet with his due Fate. As to the robbing Mr. Peters, he did not deny it, only in Alleviation he said, that he was extremely in Liquor, which was all his Excuse. It was alledg'd that he never male-treated any Body, yet he and his Companion meeting with a Gentleman not inclining to be rob'd, gave his Companion a furious blow with his Whip, so that he was almost knock'd down; Gordon in vindication of his Partner, shot at the Gentleman, who holding up his Arm to avoid the blow from his Head, was shot thro' the Arm: By this Time the other Man recovering from the Confusion he was in, held out a Pistol and swore that he would shoot the Gentleman through the Head; which he had certainly done, had not Gordon held out an other cock'd Pistol, and swore to him again, that if he shot, he would shoot him through the Head, since the Gentleman had suffer'd too much already, having been shot through the Arm. The said Gentleman would not appear against Mr. Gordon, because, although he had done him a great Injury, yet in another Respect he certainly sav'd his Life. They took from the said Gentleman and his Sister about five Pounds, and Gordon said to him, Sir, I am very sorry that I shot you, but it was your own Fault, and so wish'd him well to London.

Once he offer'd to go to some publick Market with a certain Friend or Acquaintance, who said he should be glad of his Company, if he could pass any Coach or Gentleman on the Road without attacking them, Mr. Gordon gave fair Promises, as having neither Sword nor Pistol, or any other Weapon; yet as they were riding on their way, Mr. Gordon espying a Gentleman's Coach, said, what a pity! There's a Coach, where I may have plenty of Money; he would not be hindred by his Fellow Traveller, but rode up to the Coath single as he was, where he found about or upon the back of the Coach, three or four Footmen with Blunderbusses; he call'd to one of the Footmen, pray, good Friend, deliver this Letter to a Friend of mine at London, and with that he gave him a Letter with the Price of a Pot of Drink: In the mean Time his Eye was fixt upon the Coach, and the

horse, as he used to do, went to the Coach-door, where Gordon observeing the Muzzle of a Blunderbuss standing up, he laid hold upon it, and presented to the Gentlemen in the Coach, and desired them to call out to all their Servants not to shoot at him, otherwise they were all instantly dead Men: Accordingly the Gentlemen cried aloud to their Servants no to shoot; then Mr. Gordon bid them deliver; they gave him a Purse of thirty five Guineas; upon which he rode off apace, and at a little Distance shot the Blunderbuss in the Air, and threw it away: Then he came up to his Companion, and said, see what a Prize (shewing him the Purse of Gold) I have got, by stopping but a few Minutes in the Road.

It happened at an Inn in the City of Exeter , that a mixed Company, in which Mr. Gordon made one, were got into an ordinary Strain of Country Conversation, viz. Robberies, Setts on the Road, and such like many Stories were related by the several Parties present; and among the rest, a jolly Farmer observed that it was rather Cowardice in those who were attacked, than any Courage in Highway-men, that made such Multitudes lose their Money. " I " was never (says he) attacked but " once in my Life, and then I got " the better of the Highway-man, " and forced him to sheer off without his Booty, and could do so " again, if a like Chance should " happen: I warrant my Money " safe enough with only this oaken " Cudgel in my Hand, in spite of " the briskest Highway-man in " England". The Company were diverted, the Farmer persisted in his Rodomantade, till he had talk'd himself into such a Hero, as Hercules might have been afraid of. This Language, however, piqued Mr. Gordon, and therefore could not help putting in a Word. " Sir (quoth he to the Farmer) notwithstanding all you have been saying, many brave Men have been " robb'd". Not one (replied the Farmer) I defy the stoutest of them, and would be glad to meet the best of them in a proper Place. Would ye so, says Mr. Gordon, well, I protest you're a Man of Mettle, yet I wish you get safe home without meeting a Collector. By this time it grew late, and the Farmer called for his Horse; as soon as he was got a little Way, Mr. Gordon mounted his, and jogging on slowly in sight of the Farmer, at last perceiving a proper Place, he clapped Spurs to his Mare, and came up

with him, putting the usual Question at once, Deliver! The Farmer up with his Stick and had like to have knocked him off; then they alighted, and went cooly to Cudgels, till the Farmer being soundly buffetted, gave out, and parted with his Money: However, he would not let Mr. Gordon mount, till he, by jirking his Horse round, threw him dowm; when Mr. Gordon was up, at last, Farmer, (says he) When you see your Friends at Exeter next, tell them you have not only been robb'd, but well drubb'd into the Bargain.

As this Story proves Mr. Gordon was not deficient in point of Bravery, so another, which I have heard of him, and that too well asserted, is sufficient to prove he was not cruel or delighting in Blood, which it too often happens Men of his infamous Profession are. The Thing happen'd thus:

On the Essex Road , Mr. Gordon stopped a Coach full of Passengers, and while he was examining some of them, a Gentleman, who sat near the Window, clapt a Pistol to his Breast, which mist Fire: Whereupon Gordon addressing himself to the Gentleman, said, Sir, now your Person, and whatever you have about you is in my Power. It is true (answered the Passenger) but you'll have no great Booty, for I have but six Shillings, and neither Watch or Ring. Well Sir (quoth Gordon) you shall see how much Honour there is in a Highway-man, give me that Pistol which mist me, and that other which lies by you in the Coach-seat; which being done, come (says he) you shall see what they will do in my Hands; upon which he fired them, one after another, in the Air; then turning to the Gentleman, who, under a good deal of Consternation, waited his Fate. As to your six Shillings, says he, that Sir would do me little good, and may serve to bear your Expences in the Road; and as to killing or wounding a brave Man, that I despise. So at present I have nothing more to say, than wishing you a good Journey.

What odd Sentiments these unfortunate Persons entertain of Honour? which yet are strong enough within to prevent their doing many Mischiefs, and to ingage them in the doing some Acts, which if done by others would merit Applause. Certainly, next to Honour and Virtue, Civility has the greatest Charm. How many by using those they robbed well, have avoided Death? And how sure and how unpitied does an untimely End befall those, who, to the Crime of Rapine, add

also the Folly of treating those ill who fall into their Hands. One would imagine that the Reflection of this should be sufficient to extinguish Cruelty even among Thieves; but we see in all Cases such Considerations are not minded, the Villains, who t'other Day shot a Gentleman on the Hampstead Road , are pregnant Instances of Cowardice, and a Blood-thirsty Spirit, which doing him Justice, could be never ascribed to the Deceased Mr. Gordon.

Among the other Adventures of Mr. Gordon, which have come to my Knowledge, I think there are two only, which are worthy of mention. A Farrier who once liv'd in Long-Acre, going down into the Country, was on Hounslow-Heath robb'd by Mr. Gordon of Seven and forty Shillings, and that he might not pursue him, Mr. Gordon turned loose his Horse. A considerable Time after Mr. Gordon brought his Mare to be shoed and rowelled to the same Farrier's Shop in Long-Acre ; and while that was doing, away went the Horse Doctor and Gordon to the Tavern, where having drank half a Pint, Mr. Gordon paid for it, and at the same Time for what was done to the Mare; adding, now Doctor you and I are even. No we a'n't, says the Farrier, by seven and forty Shillings you borrowed of me, borrowed of you, says Gordon, where? Why, says the Farrier, call for a Pint, if I prove it you shall pay, if not I will. The Pint being brought: I'll tell you (says the Farrier) a Circumstance that will bring it back to your Memory presently: you borrowed it a little on this Side Hounslow, and my Horse got loose a little after, and I had much ado to catch it. Gordon then recollected the Robbery, but with a Smile answered: Ay, ay, if it was so, there is your seven and forty Shillings Doctor, and many Thanks to you. So they parted both very well satisfied.

Sometime ago Mr. Gordon kept a Publick-House , and 'tis said, a Grazier lodging there one Night, and drinking very plentifully was Fool enough to let his Landlord know he had received three hundred Pound. Early in the Morning the Grazier set out, but just as he got on Epping-Forrest Mr. Gordon got up with him, and eased him with few Words of the full Sum, supposing that the Man had no Knowledge of him being drunk the Night before, and spurring his Horse pretty tightly, got back in a Trice, and went to Bed in an Hour's Time. In comes the Gra

zier, and calls for his Landlord, Sir, says the Tapster, he's asleep, wake him then, says the Grazier, for I must speak with him. When he come down, and was got into a private Room, Mr. Gordon (quoth the Grazier) I must beg you to let me have that three hundred Pounds again, for really I can't spare it. Can't you Sir, says Gordon, well then there it is, but I can tell you 'tis well my Brewer's Clerk did not come before you, if he had, I don't know how you'd scaped.

The same Spirit attended him after his Confinement and after Condemnation, but he flattered himself too much with vain Hopes, considering the Noise these and some other Affairs had made, were certainly ill founded. Many more Tales will probably be fastened on him, but we can assure the Publick these are genuine, and we hope such as will afford some Satisfaction to the Curious.

The following Paper was given to the Printer.

IT is not the smallest among those sufferings which Men under Sentence of the Law endure, that a censorious World are continually propagating evil Reports, and spreading from one to another, Rumours without Foundation. The Miseries which real Breaches of the Laws: draw on unhappy Criminals are heavy enough in themselves to excite Compassion, and it is either Cruelty of Disposition, or a barbarous Levity of Mind from whence Men are led to scatter such Detractions.

Whatever Crime brings an unfortunate Person unto Judgment, the World may canvas as they please, the Verdict has set it beyond denial, and they may either magnify its guilt, or extenuate it as appears more or less Henious to their Apprehension. But neither Conviction, nor Sentence, nor any Law, Humane or Divine, puts a Power into their Hands of adding to the Affliction of the Sufferer by their Surmizes, much less of turning their Conjectures into formal Stories, meerly to blacken one already overthrown.

These Observations I am constrained to make from Circumstances attending me, since I have been under my Misfortunes. Many Things which I have done amiss, have been aggravated; many that I have not done, invented, and laid to my Charge, in order to impede the Course of Mercy, and represent me Worse than I am; Usage which neither I, nor any Man can be wicked enough to deserve; Usage inhumane towards a Fellow Creature; and Usage which those who give must repent off, as being imporal, and unchristian, But to quit these Reflections and proceed to the Design of this Paper.

My Life being justly forfeited for my Offences, it becomes me to do all that is in the Power of such an unhappy Wretch as I am, to render my Punishment ser

viceable to my Country, by exhorting those who have already set their Feet in these Paths to turn back in time, before the Judgment of the Law hath overtaken them, and to inform such young Creatures as may be misled into a Belief, that there is something pleasant and engaging in a Life of plunder, because those who once engage in such Ways are seldom if ever reclaimed.

Such licentious Delights as Men who abandon themselves to robbing and stealing continually wallow in, are of all things the farthest from giving any Satisfaction, Judge then what Miseries are felt by those who are wretched, awake and restless in their Sleep who are constantly in Terror, and affrighted at the Shaking of a Leaf. O! how miserable a Road is that which leadeth to Destruction: What Agonies do the Wicked Feel in their Journey thro' the Paths of Death. May all Shun them who read this Paper.

Those whom in the Course of a very wicked Life I have wronged, will I hope accept of that Punishment the Law hath adjudged me to, and which I shall have suffer'd before this comes to their Hands, and not load my Memory with Reproach, or transfer them to any who survive me, and who ought not to suffer in their Character for my Crimes as well as in their Fortune from my Extravagance and Folly; for whatever the Publick may have been told of my Riches, few have died poorer than I do. There Charity in forgiving me will redound to themselves, and as to all who have injured me in my Life time I sincerely and unfeignedly forgive them. The Mercy of God thro' Christ light on my departing Soul, and cleanse it from all Spots of Sin before I appear in the Presence of my Creator, Amen.

The Copy of Mr. Gordon's Letter to his Son.

Dear Child,

As my Misfortunes, which my own Follies and incorrigible Vices have drawn upon me, will tho' contrary to all Reason, reflect on you in all probability, so it is but just that I should make this unfortunate Death of some Use to you, by making it inforce my Directions. Remember therefore what I advise you to as a Father, and Remember that your Father died shamefully for not keeping to the Practise of them himself.

Keep constantly to your Duty as a Christian apply your self earnestly to God for Grace, who is ever ready to hear those who call unfeignedly on his Holy Name; slip no Opportunity of public Prayer, but be ever ready to hear Sermons; and wherever you can be sure of hearing your Duty explained and recommended; so shall you be out of the Road of Temptation, and a

voiding the Paths of Sin, remain unacquainted with Shame. Piety will not only Reward thee with an eternal Crown hereafter, but will also preserve thee from all Danger here. Serve God therefore, and Love thy Neighbour, nor doubt that he will raise thee in his appointed Season, and that they shall Honour and Respect thee.

Honesty is a Rule from which you must not part, either for the sake of attaining Riches or avoiding little Inconveniences, check yourself in the smallest Trangression of this Kind, and think how Fatal this Neglect has been in me. If you are careful and industrious, Providence will provide means for your Subsistance; therefore live in a manner suitable to your Circumstances, and avoid such idle Pleasures as bring on Necessity, and force Men on ill Ways of getting Money to obtain them.

Avoid of all Things evil Company, as the certain Path to Ruin and the inevitable Cause of Sorrow and Misfortune, what Satisfaction can you think to find in Drinking among a crowd of Wretches who make themselves Beasts for want of Consideration, or what Happiness can you have in conversing with lewd People? Fly then from such Debaucheries, leave no room for the Enemy of Souls to enter; Nature is too corrupt to be trusted, and as you would shun my Fate, follow not my Example.

You see in me to what Vice and a sinful Course of Life bring Men. If therefore the Advices of Christian Ministers and your own Reason should be too weak to retain you your Duty, and to keep, you from breaking the Ordinances of God and the Laws of the Land, let the Memory of my Calamity Affright you, you cannot but pitty and commiserate my sad Condition though your Compassion be vain and fruitless. Continue however to cherish the same Tenderness for yourself, and let Fear supply all other Defects, and hinder you from Falling. Tremble at the Thoughts of Punishment, and then you will never do, what may make you feel it.

Nature a few Months ago took away your Mother, the Law will this Day deprive you of a Father, you have now no Parent, but the Parent of all Things, on whom you ought to rely with Confidence, that his Favour may never forsake you. Unto his gracious Protection I commend you, in these my last Moments, and I pray that he may give you Power, to live according

as he hath taught and commanded. Having fulfilled this my last Act of Duty towards you, I bid you an everlasting Adieu.

From Your Affectionate, Though Disconsolate Father

WILLIAM GORDON .

While under Sentence he behav'd always very decently and gravely, and with an appearance of a real Repentance, only that he lov'd Company a little too much, when any Freedom was given him, and in Evidence of his Sincerity, he receiv'd the Blessed Sacrament twice, once when he was at first under Sentence, and again that Morning he was executed, in Company with two other of his Fellow Sufferers; but no sooner had he receiv'd this Blessed Viaticum in Pledge of Eternal Life; but going down Stairs, and being convey'd into his own Gell, he immediately cut his Throat with a Penknife, which had been privately given him: In two Minutes one of the Keepers going in after him, found him all over bloody, then he took him out to a Room in the Pressyard, and there being by Accident two Surgeons within the Jail, one of them sow'd up his Throat, and put him in a Condition of Recovery, and living to have the Sentence of Death executed upon him, according to Law. He denied to another Reverend Clergyman and me, that he had any Design of murdering himself, but that he only by Accident cut his Throat a little as he was cutting away his Stock which was too fast tied. This does not seem a releant Excuse; and I leave it to every Man to judge upon the Penitence of one guilty of such a horid Crime as his Judgment of Discreation and Charity directs him.

2. William Ward , of Stepney , was indicted for assaulting John Wightman , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him one Guinea, and 6 s. 6 d. Feb. 27.

He was a second Time indicted for Assaulting John Lloyd on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him Seven Shillings, Feb. 27.

2. William Ward , 36 Years of Age, born of Honest Parents, not far from the City of Exeter, who gave him good Education at School in Reading, Writing, Arithmetick, and what was necessary to fit him for Business; and got him instruct

ed in our Holy Christian Faith. When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Painter in Exon , and serv'd his Time honestly, and with Approbation, and afterwards liv'd by his Business sometime, married a Wife, and had several Children, one of whom was in the Cart with him when he died. His Father having been a Dealer in Horses, he took much delight in Riding, and passing his Time in the Country, after an idle manner, neglecting his Business he was bred too, and living upon what triffling shifts his Wit suggested to him: One of which was, to travel the Highways in the West Country, and to cheat any Body he met with upon the Road, or in little Towns and Villages, out of their Money, by playing at Cups and Balls, at which Game, it seems, he had a peculiar Dexterity; till at length he was taken up for a common Cheat, and idle Vagrant, and for Quarrelling and Assaults upon the Road, about their gaming, and such Differences as happen'd in cursing, swearing, and blaspheming at one another. At one of such Scuffles there was a Man murdered, and it was suspected that Ward was the Murtherer, since about that Time he left that Country, and has never been seen at Exeter since. There came a Letter to a Gentleman in Town from Exeter , desiring him before his Death, and to clear his Conscience of such a horid Guilt, to confess, if he was the Person who murder'd that poor Man upon the Road; since some People have been suspected of this Murther, and he among others, but the same could never be found out, so as to convict any Man for it. The Gentleman I took into the Cells with me on Tuesday 24th Instant, the Day before they died and had the Letter read to Mr. Ward: He said, that Story was no new Thing to him, for they blam'd him for Hundreds of Things he never did, and among the rest for that Murther, as he very well knew long before. But as to his Guilt in that Particular, he said, he was not nigh the Place, but at a very great distance when that Murther was committed; and that he knew nothing thereof directly nor indirectly, and that the Man who did that Fact was taken up some Years ago, put in Winchester Jail, and tried and convicted, and executed for some other Crime, but that he own'd himself to have been the Man who committed that Murther not far from Exon. I had also a Letter from the Chief Keeper of the Castle of the City of Worcester ,

giving me an Account, that he was order'd by the Justices of Peace for the County of Worcester , desiring me to oblige them so far, as to inquire of William Ward under Sentence of Condemnation in Newgate at London , in Relation to a Gang of House-breakers, he used to receive stolen Goods from, at the Rose and Crown on the Lick-Hill near Bromsgrove in Worcestershire ; since they have a Man now in their Castle, who sometime since made a Confession of this Ward, who (he said) used to come to the abovemention'd House, once in about two Months, to receive all the stolen Goods the Gang brought in. In Compliance with this Desire of the Bench of Justices, upon Receipt of the said Letter, I call'd William Ward a-part to the Closet, and shewed him my Information, and desired him, after I had read the Letter, as a dying Man, who was in two or three Days to appear before the great Tribunal of Heaven, and in common Justice to Mankind to declare the Truth, if he knew any Thing in Reference to that Affair; and also, if he knew any Thing of one Manly, who was the Person that kept the House upon the Lick-Hill, or what, other Things relate to the County of Worcester. He replied, as a dying Man, in a few Moments to appear before God, that he never did any Criminal or Capital Action in Worcester in his Life, and that he knew nothing of such a Gang of Thieves in that County less or more; and as to Manly he had seen, but knew very little of him, only that he had heard some People speak but indifferently of him; and as to any other Things relating to Thieves and Robbers in that County, he knew nothing about them.

Mr. Ward at length chang'd his way of Life, and understanding Horses, his Father having liv'd in that way of Traffick, he turn'd a dealer in Horses , and came to London with his Wife and Children, and kept Smithfield Market , and other Markets about the Town and in the Country, and liv'd creditably that way, getting a good Maintenance for himself and Family, for some Years past; he told me also, that while he was in the Gatehouse , Westminster , he receiv'd Letters and repeated Messages about these Affairs in Worcestershire , and gave Answers much to the same Purpose as above. And further as to the Murthers which were alledg'd upon him, he was taken up in the West Country , and kept a long time in Shrewsbury Gaol , and that he was twice tried and acquit

ted of Murther, which he was never guilty of, as he said. And as to his Name, he said, that there were two other Men of his Name, who were lately executed for Crimes in the Country, who might possibly be tho Persons, if any of that Name did any of these Crimes, who were concern'd in villainous Enter-prizes in Worcestershire , or other Places in the Country.

As to the Robbery he died for, he did not deny it, only he said, that he was very much in Liquor, (which was the Excuse he makes in a Letter which he sent to one of his Prosecutors,) and knew nothing of what he did; neither did he know any thing of his having Pistols, or that he took Money from the Gentlemen or any thing else, as was sworn against him, but that he did not in the least doubt of the truth, of what was given in Evidence against him; and that he heartily begg'd Pardon of God and Man, for the great Offence he had committed. He behav'd always very well, showing abundance of devotion and seriousness, and shedding plenty of Tears upon all occasions; so that in Charity were bound to believe, that he died a true Penitent. He own'd, that his idling away his time, and Gaming upon the Highway in the Country, and biting People out of their Money, had acquir'd him a very ill Character, which was the first occasion of his Ruin; and that his Sentence was just according to Law; but otherways, that excepting the single Robbing Mr. Wightman and Mr. Lloyd, he was never guilty of any other Highway Robbery, and that he was never Thief or Robber before, but that his being apprehended upon the first Fact, probably prevented his doing any more mischief. He receiv'd the blessed Sacrament twice, with very much apparent Devotion. He was really Penitent; believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

N. B. It was reported to me, that he had another Wife at Exeter , beside her who waited upon him in Town, with one or two Children, and that his Wife in Exon was blind and in very great Misery. I ask'd him about the Truth of this, he told me, that he was a very unfortunate Man, and that none of the least of his Misfortunes was, to be defam'd and call'd twenty times worse than he really was; and that he never had any other Wife but her who was the Mother of his Children, and who, while he was under Sentence, attended on him every Day in Chap

pel, having sometimes with her a Son of his, about five or six Years old.

Mr. Ward's Letter to one of his Prosecutors before he was Try'd.

Worthy Sir,

A Man under my Confinement, and for a Crime which is Death by the wholesome Laws of this Kingdom, which I do not pretend to deny, makes me with the utmost Submission and Contrition beg your tender Mercy to a poor Wretch, who by having drank too much Liquor committed so foul a Crime, which was the first of the Kind, having never had any other Thoughts than getting an honest Livelihood wherewith to maintian my poor Wife and small Children, who must (if I am prosecuted by you Good Sir) inevitably Perish. I therefore most humbly Implore, Good Sir, that you will out of your wonted Goodness; shew Mercy to a poor Wretch, who with his Family will always think it a Duty Incumbent on them to acknowledge it, and pray for your Prosperity.

Yours, &c.

William Ward .

The following Paper was design'd to have been Spoken by Ward the Highway-Man at the Place of Execution.

Good People,

YOU see me before you, who have been a notorious Sinner, now a miserable Object of Shame, ready to die by the just Sentence of Human Law, and on the brink of another World, where I am to appear before a great Judge, unto whom all Hearts are open, all Offences known, and from whom nothing can be concealed, pity my Condition, pray for my Pardon, and let the sight of my Death work serious Thoughts and unfeigned Repentance in yourselves.

It were needless to trouble you, and to perplex myself with Repetitions of those Crimes which in the Course of a very wicked Life I have committed, it is sufficient that I own the Commission of that Fact for which I die, Acknowledge the Justice of that Doom which sent me hither, and die in perfect Peace and Charity with all Men.

In the Course of my Follies, as other Men have done, I have proceeded from one Vice to another, from Iniquity unto Iniquity, until the Justice of Providence brought

this Heavy, this Mortal Evil upon me. Many who are Spectators of my Death may be Practisers of the same Sins which have stained my Soul, and they would do well to reform by my Example for this Purpose I am brought hither, and that my Death may answer this Purpose. I pray with my last Breath, and therefore I trust the Wisdom and Goodness of God will Sanctify to me this dismal End, by making it a Warning to others.

Particularly I wish the ignominy of my Fate may make proper Impressions on him who was the Partner of my Crime, tho' he has been fortunate enough to escape being the Partner of my Punishment; let this be perpetually a Memorial unto him of God's Mercy towards him, and may he improve the remaining Part of his Days in the Service of his Creator, and grateful Acknowledgements of his Favour towards him, otherwise the making an ill Use of this Blessing will Augment his Offences, as preservering in that Course will finally bring on Ruin, which the Lord of Mercy avert;

There is nothing now remains but that trusting in the infinite Mercy of God, and in the Merits of my Saviour, I submit to what my own evil Deeds have subjected me to. Once more I humbly and earnestly entreat the Prayers of all good Christians for my departing Soul, and that when I am dead they will suffer the Memory of my Crimes to die with me, and not impute them to an Innocent Family, otherwise sufficiently Unfortunate thro' my Faults.

Lord receive my Spirit.

William Keys , of Finchly, was indicted for assaulting Richard Richardson , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him two Guineas, January 27.

3. William Keys , 23 Years of Age, born in the South-West of Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and Cyphering, to prepare him for Business, and had him taught the essential Particles of Christianity: When of Age he was put Apprentice to a Barber and Perriwig-maker , and serv'd honestly his Servitude with Approbation of his Master. He afterwards went to Spain , and serv'd in a King's Ship there, as Barber to the Captain , and had the Love of his Master. At other times he serv'd as a Journey-man Perriwig-maker at Cadiz in Spain ; he also travelled in France and Italy , and other Countries of the Romish

Communion, and (as he said) always bore a good Character, and by close following his Business never wanted a sufficient Maintenance. Last Year a Gentleman at Cadiz hir'd him for a Servant , with whom he stayed for some Time there, and who afterwards brought him over to England, and kept him for some Time in his Service at London : When he left him, he followed journey-work in Town, till such Time as he was taken up for the Robbery, upon Account of which he died. He also declared, if he had not been taken up, he intended in the Month of May next to return to Spain, as loving to serve on board of a Spanish Man of War.

The Gentleman whom he robb'd, his Footman and Coachman, haveing all three sworn directly to his Face, his Cloaths and other Things about him, since he had no Disguise either about his Face or Person, and it being at two in the Afternoon, when the Chariot was stopt and Mr. Richardson robb'd; notwithstanding of all which, he persisted in a positive Denial of the Fact: I asked him if he was really the Person or not, upon the Faith of a dying Man, and as he was to answer to God, who robb'd Mr. Richardson upon Finchley-Common , he made solemn Asseverations and Protestations, that there must be a Mistake, for he was not the Person. I endeavour'd what I could, by all possible Arguments, to move him to a plain Confession; but say what I could, he still continued and adhered to his former Confessions, and would alter in no Point. He was of the Romish Communion, declared his Faith in Christ, as the Saviour of the World; that he repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from Almighty God.

William Norman , was indicted for breaking and entring the House of Paul Rankin , and stealing a Camblet Gown, Value 9 s. a Silk Gown, Value 20 s. a Crape Gown, Value 12 s. a Camblet Cloak, Value 9 s. a Banyan, a Waistcoat, a Rug Coat, and two Aprons, the Goods of Thomas Thornhill , Jan. 3. about ten at Night.

4. William Norman , about 19 Years of Age, Born towards Stepney , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, if he would have apply'd to his Book, but he was of such an untractable perverse Nature from his Infancy, that he would learn nothing, and when he came to be of Age he had forgot all, and could neither

read nor write. He past best part of his time about the Streets, in a very idle way, and got into the Acquaintance of such grosly wicked young People, who afterwards prov'd his utter Ruin, and brought him to his fatal End. His Parents being in mean Circumstances, could not well put him out Apprentice; so a Gentleman in Fetter-Lane, taking a liking to young Norman who was a very likely Boy to look on, he took him into his House, and was to instruct him to his own Business of a Leather-dresser . The Gentleman did what he could, to get Norman into a vertuous way of thinking and acting; but all his Endeavours that way, were in vain and to no purpose; for he getting plenty of Money, by one Means or other, gave his Master the Slip upon Sundays, Holydays and at other times, and went to Alehouses, Skittle Grounds, Gaming-Houses, and such like Places, where he employ'd his time with the worst of idle Company; and this (he said) was the first Step to destruction, for staying out whole Nights and being of no service to his Master, who intended, if the Boy had been good for any thing, to put him into his own way of Business, and to set him up in the World; but observing him altogether irreclaimable, and that he could be of no use to him, but rather ready to do him an injury, he threw up his Business and went to the Country, and discharg'd himout of his Service. After this he went home to his Father, and in a short time, went a Voyage to Ireland and Jamaica : Coming home about a Year after, he did not incline to go any more abroad, but associated himself with a Gang of the most notorious Thieves and Whores in or about the Town, and from this he dated his total Ruin and final Overthrow: For afterwards they got Norman engag'd in all manner of Thefts and Robberies, picking Pockets, House-breaking, Shop-lifting, Street-robberies, and going upon the Highway, &c. Some Months ago, he being taken up, and very young, was admitted an Evidence against several others, and convicted five or six of them, who were Executed, and one Hundred Pound was given him for his Share of the Reward, which was enough to have put him into some good way of Business, if he had been of any virtuous Dispositions; but to his Sorrow he own'd, that he spent the most of it in a very short time, with the worst of Company, before he got out of Prison; and when at Freedom, in a few

Days or Weeks, all was gone; and he having no Company, but the most desperate of Men and Women, who had no good Advice to give him, but to go out upon unlawful Purchase, when his Money run short; otherwise he said, if he could have got rid of that mischievous Crew, he design'd to go to Sea, and live honestly the rest of his Days, but he had not so much goodness, as to seek the Grace of God for this purpose. He confest, that for some Years past, he was a most wicked, vicious and abandon'd Boy, in drinking, whoring, swearing, gaming, stealing, robbing and all kind of Vice, that he was irreclaimable in wickedness, and suffer'd most deservedly for his irregular and vicious Life.

As to the Burglary for which he died, he owned he was in Company with the rest of them who committed the Fact, but that he knew nothing of their Intention that Night, and did not go into the House with a dark Lanthorn, but as he was standing in the Street, one of them handed to him a Bundle of Goods, which they disposed of to the best Advantage they could; and his being there, and partaking in the Plunder, made him equally guilty with the rest.

William Norman was very ignorant of Religion; but the time being short, and he unacquainted with spiritual Things, could not profit very much, by all the Instructions that were given him. He declared himself very penitent, wept often and bitterly, was very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, and most thankful to me, and blest me for giving him private Instructions, in a familiar Way, in the most necessary Points of Religion. He desired me to take Notice, that his Mother knew nothing of his Rogueries, and that the World ought not to blame her; for that both his Father and Mother gave him always the best of Advice, which if he had had the Grace to follow, he would not have come to such a fatal End. He hoped for Salvation, through the Faith of Christ; repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

POSTSCRIPT.

Mr. Gordon's Letter of Thanks to his Brothers for endeavouring to save his Life.

Dear Brothers,

WHILE there is Life there is Hopes, and I am not the only Person who in my Melancholy State, have entertained them longer than I ought. Death is dreadful to Nature, wherefore it is no wonder we avoid it, and this may serve to excuse the Trouble I have given you, since it is in vain, the Will of God be done. I should not have lived any where without Sins, and dying now I have fewer to Repent of, may the Mercy of my Redeemer render my imperfect and constrained Repentance effectual.

I most humbly and heartily return you my Thanks for the unwearied Diligence you have shewn to save an unworthy Brother, my Follies have plunged me into Wretchedness, from whence if your Goodness and Kindness could not fetch me out, I am not less sensible of the Tenderness of your Inclinations. Though it be no Way in my Power to return it, but by this Expression of my Gratitude and hearty Wishes that Happiness and the Blessing of God may ever attend you.

I hope the World will not be so unjust as to reflect on you for my Sake, but if they should, what harm can it do you, my Misdeeds will not prejudice you in the Opinion of reasonable Men, and the Voice of Fools ought not to be regarded. What I have done I am to suffer for with the loss of my Life, and with a greater Loss, but for the Merits of Christ and the Mercy of the Almighty, therefore this ought to stifle Rage, and shut the Mouth of Defamers. Pity me while living, and pray for me to the Hour of Death, who am your Disconsolate Brother, &c.

William Gordon .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THEY all appeared to be in a devout Manner, and Posture. I reproved Mr. Gordon gently for cutting his Throat in the Cells, immediately after Chappel was over. He said, he designed not to make away with himself, but only being in a great Confusion, as he was cutting his Stock, which was too fast bound, he happened to make a little Incision upon his Throat. I did not look upon this as a good Excuse, but cared not to disturb him in his last Moment. Just before he was turn'd off, he call'd out for Mr. Deacon several Times, which Gentleman was the Person he shot in the Arm about three Years agone, and it was thought on Purpose to ask his Pardon and Forgiveness. He said he had no more to add to his former Confessions, and to the People, that he inclined not to make Speeches.

Ward said, That he was unjustly blamed for one or two Murthers which he knew nothing of.

Keys stood by his former Confessions.

Norman said, That a Robbery one swore against him at a former Sessions, he did not commit; but that he had been pro

foundly wicked, and wish'd others might take Example. They were all very attentive to Prayers, and devout in singing Psalms. They left this Stage, crying out, That God would have Mercy upon them, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

This all the Account, given By Me,

James Guthrie ,

Ordinary of Newgate.

FINIS.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Dr. Nelson's most wonderful PANACEA, or, the CONFIRM'D VENEREAL DISEASE, And all the Relicks or Remains of it in the Blood which it infallibly eradicates, tho' of ever so long standing, it having been above thirty Years experienc'd to be the only safe and sure Remedy for that hateful Distemper, that was ever known or discovered.

IT curing so easily, and insensibly, as to any Disorder it gives. Confinement it requires, or Suspicion it occasions, that it is admir'd and recommended by all that have taken it, for it neither purges, vomits, nor salivates, but cures by its Alterative, Deobstruent Antivenereal Qualities, in so much that Children, and the weakest and most tender or crazy constitution'd People may take it at all times of the Year, and go about with it as if they had taken nothing as may likewise those who have been brought near the Grave, by repeated unsuccessful Salivations, or other violent, or too frequent Purgations, or Vomits; for it restores as well as clears the Blood, Head, and whole Habit, of all the lurking poisonous Taint, and Mercury ho' never so secretly lodg'd in the Body; wherefore et none of those unfortunate People dispair, but try t, and they will be comfortably convinc'd of the Truth of what is here said of it.

Persons who are pox'd to the last Degree, their whole Mass of Blood being contaminated, aud have been told that nothing but a Salivation would Cure them, tho' they Labour under tormenting Pains in the Head, Limbs or Joints; or have breakings out Scabs Blotches, Bioles, or Spots; or have Swellings, Nodes Sores or, Ulcers, either in their Throat, Nose, or elsewhere, with weariness in the Limbs, Faintness and Weakness of the whole Body, &c. may intirely rely upon it, only, that according to the Degree of the Infection, they must take it and continue it for a longer or shorter Time.

Such as have only some Relicks of the Disease, or but suspect that their Blood has got a Smatch of the Taint, by some unusual Uneasinesses about them, which they now and then feel, either from ill manag'd Claps, or other doubtful Cures, should never venture to marry if they are single, nor meddle with their Wives if marry'd, till they are sure they are safe, as they most certainly will be, upon their only taking a Pot or two of it.

It is also exceeding pleasant to take, as well as delightful in its effects; and cleanses, Nourishes and Restores, the foulest, most weakened and worn out Constitutions

Price 5 s. the Tin pot, prepar'd only by the Doctor abovesaid, and left by him, at Mr. Isted's Bookseller at the Golden Ball, near St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet street; where it may be had, by any Messenger, ready sealed up, with Directions how to take it, by only asking for a 5 s. Pot of the Panacea.

This Day is publish'd, Price 3 s. 6 d.

With the Frontispiece of the Famous Jack Shepherd's Escape out of the Condemn'd Hold of Newgate.

THE LIVES of the most remarkable Criminals, who have been condemn'd and executed, for Murder, Highway, House-breaking, Street Robberies, Coining, or other Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Time: Containing particularly, the Lives of, Mrs. Griffith for the Murder of her Maid; Kennedy the Pyrate; Molony and Carrick, Highwaymen; Brindsden who murder'd his Wife; Levee, and the rest of his Gang. Street Robbers; Capt. Massy for Pyracy; Roch for Pyracy and Murder, a full Account of the Waltham Blacks; the famous Jack Shephard ; his Companion Blue-skin; and Towers who was hang'd for setting up the new Mint. Collected from Original Papers and Authentick Memoirs. To which is prefix'd, a Preface, containing a general View of the Laws of England, with respect to Capitalt Offences.

Printed and sold by John Applebee in Bolt Court , Fleet Street ; A. Bettesworth, and C. Hitch, at the Red-Lion in Pater Noster Row; John Pemberton , at the Golden Back against St. Dunstan's Church , J Isted, at the Golden Bail near Chancery-lane, in Fleet-street; E Symon in Cornhill; R Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Amen-Corner near Pater-Noster Row; W. Mears, at the Lamb the Corner of Bell Savage Inn on Ludgate Hill, and Richard Wellington , at the Dolphin and Crown , without Temple Bar .

The Publick may depend on the Accounts publish'd in this Work, as containing a just and faithful Narration of the Conduct of these unhappy Persons, and a true State of their respective Crimes, without any Additions of feigned and romantick Adventures, calculated meerly to entertain the Curiosity of the Reader.

N. B. Vol. II. is in the Press, and will be Publish'd with all convenient Expedition.

Where may be had of the Printer of this Paper,

The Life and Actions of JOSEPH POWIS , who was Executed on Monday the 16th of October last at Tyburn Written by himself, during his Confinement in the Cells. Price 1 s.

ELectuarium Mirabile; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed, and Safty, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement; Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easie in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author, Dr. CAM, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden Ball in Bow Church yard, Cheapside, a Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requesite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy shops, Book sellers shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with on any Occasion. And tho' by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts. viz. 1. On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaeas, or Clap. III. On the Veneral Lues, or Grand Pox, &c Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout. Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Dissertation on the Pox. Dedicated to Sir Hans Sloane . Price 1 s. 6 d. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhill, E. Midwinter in St. Paul's Churchyard, and at the Author's House before mentioned.

For a certain Cure of the Scurvy, and all Scorbutick Humours, is recommended,

THE Antiscorbutick Purging Tincture of Scurvygrass, to be taken any Time of the Year, but more especially Spring and Fall.

It is an effectual Remedy against the Scurvy, and all Scorbutick, salt, brinish, and watery Humours, and is an experienced Remedy for purging the Blood in the Spring, giving it a due Circulatian, and totally consuming any venomous Matter that may lie lurking in the Body or Blood, after the last great Sickness in the Winter, which undoubtedly may bring many intolerable Distempers upon the Body, by putrifying, the Blood, and bringing Go agutation of Humours, without such an universal Cathartick and Diuretick as this is.

Its an excellent Purge for Choler, Flegm, Melancholy, windy and watery Humours, drawing them from the Head and Joints: It purges gently, and is safe in all Ages, Sexes, and Constitutions, begets an Appetite, helps Digestion, and stops Fumes from afflicting the Head, chears and comforts the Spirits, and being often used, prevents the Stone, for it alters the Morbid State of the Juices, purifies the Blood, weeten all the Fluids, cleanses them from Impurites, and many more Arthritick and Rheumatick Ailments.

Prepared and sold by the Author, a Chymist, the second House on the Right Hand n Bride-lane, next Fleet street. 'Tis likewise Sold at Mr. Robotham's Toyshop, near White-chapple-Bars; at Mr. Neal's Toyshop, opposite the White-Hart-Inn, in the Borough of Southwark, and Mr. Greg's, Book seller, next Northumberland House, Charing Cross, at One Shilling a Bottle.

Where is also Sold,

The Original, Inestimable, Angelical Electuary; universally esteemed for a speedy Cure of Coughs, Colds, Asthma's, Phthisick, Wheezings, difficult Breathing, shortness of Breath and Consumtions. One Shilling a Pot. Both Sealed above.

A TRUE COPY OF THE PAPER, Delivered the Night before her Execution, BY SARAH MALCOM , TO THE Rev. Mr. PIDDINGTON, Lecturer of St. Bartholomew the Great. March 6th, 1732-3.

LONDON:

Printed for J. WILFORD, behind the Chapter-House, near St. Paul's. M DCCXXXII.

Price Four Pence.

F the following Paper it needs only be said, that it was written by this unfortunate Person with her own Hand in the Press-yard of Newgate, on Tuesday the Sixth Instant, the Day before her Suffering. She spent the greatest Part of the Day in Writing it; and when it was finish'd she read it over several times; being often admonish'd to be careful

to write nothing but what was Truth. She then folded it up with her own Hands before the Rev. Dr. Middleton, Lecturer of St. Bride's, and Rowland Ingram , Esq; Keeper of his Majesty's Goal of Newgate, who both sealed it with their own Seals; in which manner she delivered it to me, with a desire that it might be published.

After the Execution was over, the Paper was opened before the Worshipful the Sheriffs of London and Middlesex, Dr. Middleton, Mr. Peters, Mr. Brouncker, and Mr. Ingram; and being read, was again sealed up, and produced last Night before the Honourable the Masters

of the Bench of the Inner and Middle Temples, who read and returned it to me in the manner in which they received it, and in the manner wherein it now appears to the World.

March 9th, 1732-3.

WM. PIDDINGTON.

March the 6. 1733.

SIR,

OU cannot be, nor are not unsensible that there is a just God, before whom we must give an exact Account of all our Actions, at the End of our Lives.

SO as my Life is at an End, and I must appear before the All-seeing Judge of Heaven and Earth, to give an Account of mine, so I take that great Judge to witness, that what I here declare is true.

January the 28, which was Sunday, after my Master was gone to Commons, Mary Tracey came to me, and drank Tea, and then it was, I did give my Consent to that unhappy Act of

Robbing Mrs. Duncomb, but I do declare before the Almighty, before whom I shortly shall appear, I did not know of the Murder.

AND on Saturday the 3d of February was the Time appointed, and according they came about 10 a Clock at Night, and Mary Tracey came to Mr. Kerrol's Chambers, and I went to Mrs. Duncomb's, and on the Stairs I met the Maid, and she did ask me, whether I was going to the old Maid, and I answered I was, and as soon as I thought she had got down Stairs, I would have gone in myself, but I thought that I should give some Suspicion, and so I asked which would go in, and James Alexander replied, he would, and the Door being left open for the Maid, against her Return, or otherways I was to have knocked at the Door, and after to have let them in, but it being open hindered it, and I gave James Alexander Directions to lie under the Maid's Bed, and desired Mary Tracey and Thomas Alexander to go and stay for me at my Master's Door until my Return, and according they did, and when I came, I desired they would go and stay for me at Mrs. Duncomb's Stairs, until my Return, and I went and lighted a Candle, and

stirred the Fire in my Master's. Chamber, and went again to Mary Tracey and Thomas Alexander , who were on Mrs. Duncomb's Stairs, and there we waited until after two a Clock on the Sunday which was the 4th of February, and then I would have gone in, but when Thomas Alexander and Mary Tracey interrupted me, and said, if you go in, and they awake, they will know you, and if you stay on the Stairs, it may be that some one will come up and see you; but I made Answer, that no one lives up so high but Madam Duncomb.

AND at length it was concluded that Mary Tracey and the other Alexander should go in, and shut the Door, and accordingly they did, and there I remained until between 4 and 5 a Clock, and then they came out, and said Hip, and I came higher up, and they did ask, which way they should shut the Door, and I told them to run the Bolt back, and it would spring into its Place, and accordingly they did, and came down, and having come down, they asked, where they should divide what they had got, I asked how much that was, they said, about three hundred Pounds in Goods and Money, but said they were forced to gag them all.

I DESIRED to know, where they had found it, they said, that fifty Guineas of it was in the old Maid's Pocket in a Leathern Purse, besides Silver, that they said was loose; and above an hundred and fifty Pounds in a Drawer, besides the Mony that they had out of a Box, and the Tankard, and one Silver Spoon, and a Ring which was looped with Thread, and one square Piece of Plate, one Pair of Sheets, and two Pillow-beers, and five Shifts, and we did divide all this, near Fig-Tree-Court; as also near Pump-Court, and they did say unto me, besure that you bury the Cole and Plate under Ground, until the Robbery is all over: For if you be seen flush of Cole, you will be suspected; and on Monday, besure, about 3 or 4 a Clock, you come to the Pewter Platter on Holbourn-Bridge.

I BEING apprehended on the Sunday Night, on the Monday Morning, when I was in the Compter, I happened to see one Bridgewater, he said, he was sorry to see me there, I also was sorry to see him a Brother in Affliction; he desired me to give him a Dram, for he was a great while in Prison, and I threw him a Shilling and a Farthing: And I walking about the Room, I was

surprised to hear me called by my Name, and looking about, I observ'd at the Head of the Bed something move, and I pulled back the Curtain, and there I saw this Bridgewater, and he asked, whether I had sent for any Friends; I told him I had, and not long after, he called me again, and said, there was a Friend come to me; and I looked thorough the Hole in the Wall, and asked, whether that was Will Gibbs , and he answered me, yes; and I asked him, how the Alexanders were, he said, they were well; he asked me, how I came to be taken, and I told him, my Master having found the Tankard, and some Linnen, and he having seen ninety Pounds and sixteen Shillings on the Sunday the 4th of February, but it might through Surprize be forgot, but I had it all. He said, if I would give him some Mony, he would get People, that would swear that the Tankard was my Mother's according as I would direct; but said I, you must get some one to swear, that I was at their House; he said, it must be a Woman, and he said, she would not go without 4 Guineas, and the four Men must have 2 Guineas a-piece. So I gave him 12 Guineas, and he said, he and his Friends would be at the Bull's-Head in Bread-Street, but when I asked for them, I could not

hear of them, and when I came before the Worshipful Alderman Brocas, I was committed to Newgate.

AND when I was brought up to the Common Side, I was bid to pull off my Riding-hood, and one Peter Buck a Prisoner observed a Bulk in my Hair to hang down behind, and told one Roger Johnson , that I certainly had Mony in my Hair, and Mr. Johnson brought me down in a Cellar, and told me, that Peter Buck said, I had Mony in my Hair, and he laid his Hand on my Head, and bid me take it out, and so I did, and he counted 36 Moidores and 18 Guineas, and 6 Broad Pieces, and 2 of them were 25 Shillings, and 4 were 23 Shillings Pieces, and half a 23 Shillings, and 5 Crowns, and 2 Half-Crowns and one Shilling, and he said in the Condemned Hole he would be cleared and get out of Goal on that Account.

In the Seal'd Cover, wherein the foregoing PAPER was enclos'd, were these Words written also with her own Hand.

THE Enclos'd, which contains Six Sides of Paper, which I take Almighty God and my own Conscience to witness, is nothing but the very Truth, as witness my Hand,

SARAH MALCOM .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

SHE declar'd she died in Peace with all the World. Earnestly desired to see her Master Kerroll; but as she could not, protested that all Accusations and Aspersions concerning Him are entirely false, and that all Confessions, except those delivered to me, are entirely groundless, and likewise solemnly declared that the Contents of the foregoing Paper were true.

W. PIDDINGTON.

N. B. This PAPER being enter'd in the Register Book of the Company of Stationers, and at the Stamp-Office, according to the Act of Parliament: Whoever prints it in Town or Country, in a News-Paper, Collection, or by it self, will be prosecuted for the same.

Just Published, No. XIV.

Containing Five Sheets in Folio, Price Six-pence,

A Chronicle of the Kings of England, from the Time of the Romans Government, to the Death of King James the First. By Sir Richard Baker , Knt. With a Continuation to the Death of King George I.

I. The Work will consist of Two Hundred and Forty Sheets, which will be printed in the same Manner as the Specimen.

II. For the Accommodation of those who don't chuse to take the whole Work together, five Sheets will be deliver'd every Week, at the Price of Six-pence, to such of the Subscribers who are desirous of having it after that manner: By which Means the whole, when compleated, will cost but 1 l. 4 s. in Quires, and be finish'd in less than a 12 Month. The Proprietors are, Samuel Ballard in Little Britain ; Benjamin Motte at the Middle Temple Gate ; Richard Williamson near Gray's-Inn-Gate , Holborn ; Samuel Birt in Ave-Mary-Lane ; John Stagg in Westminster-Hall ; Thomas Osborne in Gray's-Inn ; and Charles Davis in Pater-Noster-Row : By whom the Numbers will be delivered, as also by James Roberts in Warwick-Lane . Proposals at large, with a Specimen of the Work, to be had gratis at the above Places.

Books just printed for T. Worrall, at Judge Coke's Head over against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleetstreet.

1. The HOUSEKEEPER'S Pocket Book, and Compleat Family Cook, containing above 300 curious and uncommon Receipts in Cookery, Pastry, Preserving, Pickling, Candying, Collaring, &c. by Mrs. Sarah Hamson of Devonshire; price 2 s. 6 d.

2. Friendship in Death in Twenty LETTERS from the Dead to the Living: To which are added LETTERS Moral and Entertaining, in Prose and Verse, in three Parts, by the same Author; price 7 s. 6 d. bound all together.

3. Twelve SERMONS on several Occasions, by the late Reverend and Learned WILLIAM LUPTON , D. D. Preacher to the Hon. Society of Lincoln's-Inn , and Prebendary of Durham ; to which is prefix'd the Author's Effigies; price 5 s.

4. Advice from a Mother to her SON and DAUGHTER; done from the French of the celebrated Marchioness de Lambert, by a Gentleman; price 1 s. 6 d. sheep, 2 s. calf.

5. Dr. YOUNG'S true Estimate of Human Life; in which the Passions are consider'd in a New Light. Dedicated to the QUEEN, the 3d Edit. price 1 s.

6. DALKEITH, a POEM. Occasioned by a View of that delightful Palace and Park, the Seat of his Grace the Duke of Buccleugh; price 4 d.

