The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors, that were Executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 2d Day of May, 1707.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old Baily on Wednesday the 23d, Thursday the 24th, Friday the 25th, and Saturday the 26th of April last, two Men and one Woman being Try'd and found Guilty, did accordly receive Sentence of Death, and are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this Sentence, I constantly attended them, and did publickly preach to them and other Persons then present in the Chappel of Newgate, viz.

On the LORD's DAY the 27th of April last, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Ezak. 33. 11. Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the Death of the Wicked, but that the Wicked turn from his Way, and live.

In Speaking to which Words, I shew'd;

I. The Nature and Extent of that Commission, which God has given his Ministers about this great Doctrine of Repentance; they being (as St. Paul speaks, 2 Cor. 5. 18. &c.) Ambassadors for Christ, to exhort, to pray, to beseech, to intreat Men in Christ's Name and in his Stead, That they would be reconciled to God, i. e. That they would repent of their Sins, and lead a new Life. And here I explain'd to them the Nature of Repentance; such as may be available to Salvation.

II. I shew'd them the Reasonableness of this Duty, viz. That Men should repent; That they should do as they are desired and taught in this weighty and important Matter.

III. The great Advantages, and unspeakable Comforts resulting from the constant Exercise of true Repentance.

Those were the Heads, on which I then discours'd; concluding all with suitable Exhortations to the Condemned.

And Yesterday, being a Day appointed for Publick Thanksgiving, I did preach to them again, both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, upon part of one of the proper Psalms for the Morning-Service, viz. Psal. 122.6. Pray for the Peace of Jerusalem: They shall prosper that love it.

This Text, I told them, points at two Things.

The 1st, Is a Duty prescrib'd. The 2d, A Reward promis'd.

The Duty is Prayer. The Reward is Prosperity.

Which to illustrate, I shew'd;

I. The Obligation incumbent upon all men to pray, not only for themselves in particular, but for the Good of the Publick in general; for the Prosperity of the Church and State; which is intimated in the former Clause of the Text, Pray for the Peace of Jerusalem.

II. What Prayer is, and what are the due Qualifications for it.

III. The good Effects always attending Prayer (made in Faith and Charity) with respect both to our present and future Happy State; imply'd in the latter Clause of the Text. They shall prosper that love it.

Having inlarg'd upon these Heads, and spoke in general to the Assembly, and said something of Thanksgiving, in relation to the Solemnity of the Day, &c. I then apply'd my self in particular to the Persons under Condemnation; shewing them the great Necessity of their constant exercising themselves in this Duty of Prayer; that so, God would be pleased to lend a gracious Ear to them, and dispose them, by his Grace, to be admitted into that Blessed Place where our Prayers shall be chang'd into Eternal Songs of Praise and Thanksgiving to our great and good God, our faithful Creator, and most merciful Saviour.

In my private Discourses with them, I received their Confessions; the Substance of which is as follows.

I. Thomas Dickson , or Dickenson , condemned for breaking open the House of Joseph Jury Esq ; on the 28th Day of March last, and taking from thence some pieces of Plate and several other Goods of considerable Value. He own'd, he was guilty of this Fact; neither could he deny, but that he had been formerly condemned upon such an account, and had very lately receiv'd the benefit of HER MAJESTY's gracious Pardon. Upon which he said, he was very sorry, he had so ill improv'd that Mercy, and that he now justly deserv'd to find no morë Mercy in this World, who had so much abus'd it before. He told me, that he was about 70 Years old, born at Waltham-Abby in Essex , and had liv'd a great while in or about London, in Bonhill-fields , &c. and that he had for the most part of his Life, got his Livelihood very honestly by his hard Work, he being a poor Labouring Man ; but he confess'd withal, that of late Years he had faln inro this wicked Way of Robbing Houses, being first induced to it by some others that were in the Trade before him. He was very stupid, and very ignorant of the Duties of Religion. He asked Pardon of God for his having offended him in neglecting so much, as he had done, his Worship and Service, and in doing those things which he ought not to have done. He likewise desired all that he had injur'd would forgive him, for he was truly sorry for, but not able to repair, the Wrongs they had suffer'd by him. He said little besides, and that not very material.

II. John Gooding , alias Goodwin , alias Plump , Condemned for breaking open the House of Mr. Alexander Hurrick , on the 13th of January last, and taking from thence 200 Yards of Durant-Stuff. He confess'd that he was concern'd in that Robbery, and that he was justly condemn'd; That he had been guilty of such Facts (though of none but this since his last coming from Sea, which was last Christmas) and that he had received Pardon before, viz. about 3 Years ago; but had not then fully resolved to become honest; and so when he found Opportunity of exercising his old Trade of Breaking Houses, he fell to it again. He further said, that he was 22 Years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Andrew's Holborn , and that he had spent most part of his Life in the Sea-Service ; and that the Ship on board which he served last was the Dreadnought, a 4th Rate. He own'd he had been a lewd Liver and a very wicked Man, who had done much mischief, and little or no good in the World, and that it was just with God to take him out of it in this shameful manner. He implor'd the Divine Mercy, begg'd Pardon of all he had offended, and declar'd that he dy'd in Charity with all Men, and wish'd that his Companions in Wickedness would take Warning by him.

Alice Gray , condemned for assisting one Thomas, alias John Smith , in committing a Rape upon the Body of Katherine Masters , on the 28th of February last. She deny'd the Fact, and said, she never was guilty of any thing like it, though she had otherwise much offended God, and particularly in her having of late kept company with a Man, whom she was to have marry'd, but was not actually marry'd to him. She said very little else; only, That she was about 32 Years of Age, born at Andover in Hampshire ; That she had all along workt very hard for her Livelihood; That she had liv'd several Years (both a Wife and a Widow) in the Parish of St. Clement's Dane ; and had since her Husband's Death (as in his Life's time) maintain'd her self by her honest and constant Labour; she making-up Cloaths for Souldiers , and sometimes going to Washing and Scowring , and at other times Watching with Sick Folks, and being a Nurse to them. She added, That she forgave all her Enemies, and died in Charity with them, and all the World besides; and pray'd to God, That he would Pardon all the Sins of her Life, and have Mercy upon her Soul. Being often press'd by some Reverend Divines, besides my self, to acknowledge the Fact for which she was condemned; shewing her the dreadful Punishment that would attend her Denial, if she was any ways guilty or appris'd of it, she declar'd thus much, and no more, viz. That there was a Man in the Room that Night when that Fact was said to have been committed; That he lay a-cross the feet of the Bed, but never offer'd to force or lie with the Young Woman; and, That that Man was a Stranger to her, and she did not know what became of him afterwards. This is all that she confess'd in this Matter. Which being again put to her at the Place of Execution, she persisted in what she had said to me before concerning it.

At the Place of Execution, whither they were this day carry'd in a Cart, and where I attended them, I did (according to my usual manner) discharge my last Duty to their Souls. They seem'd to be sensible of the Evil of Sin, and declar'd again, that they heartily repented of what they

had done amiss, and asked Pardon of God and Men. They desired the Standers-by to take Warning by them and pray for them.

After this I withdrew; and having commended them to God's Mercy, left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allow'd them. Then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off; while calling earnestly up on God, to have Mercy upon their Souls, in these and the like Ejaculations. Lord pardon my Sins, Lord have Mercy upon me, &c.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Persons, by

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Friday, May 2d. 1707.

††† Whereas some Persons do frequently take the Liberty of putting out of Sham-Papers, pretending to give an Account of the Malefactors that are Executed; in which Papers they are so defective and unjust, as sometimes to mistake even their Names and Crimes, and often misrepresent the State they plainly appear to be in under their Condemnation, and at the time of their Death. To prevent which great Abuses, These are to give Notice, That the only true Account of the Dying Criminals, is that which comes out the next Day after their Execution, about 9 in the Morning, the Title whereof constantly begins with these Words, The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, &c. In which Paper (always Printed on both sides the better to distinguish it from Connterfeits) are set down the Heads of the several Sermons Preach'd before the Condemned: And after their Confessions and Prayers, and Atestation thereto under the Ordinary's Hand, that is, his Name at length; and at the bottom the Printer's Name, Dryden Leach ; which if the Readers would but observe, they would avoid those scandalous Cheats heretofore constanly impos'd upon them.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THE Monthly Miscellany: Or, Memoirs for the Curious. Occasionally containing, Divinity and Law, Philosophy, Moral, Natural, and Experimental. Mathematicks in its several Branches. Physick, Chymistry, Surgery, Anatomy and Botany. Epitome of Books and News, impartially done. Lives and Characters of famous Persons as well Living as Dead, being the Life of Mr Jeremiah White , formerly Chaplain to Oliver Cromwel . Letters on several Subjects, with a Diary of Material Occurrences. History, Poetry and Travels, Husbandry and Trade, For the Month of March, Vol. I. By several Hands. Sold By J. Morphew near Stationers-hall.

THE Third Volume of the Writings of the Author of the London-Spy, consisting of Poems on divers Subjects, viz. A Dialogue between Britannia and Prudence. Fortune's Bounty. A Protestant Scourge. A Musical Entertainment. A Satyr against the corrupt Use of Money. The Libertine's Choice. The charitable Citizen. All Men Mad, or England a great Bedlam. A Satyr against Wine. A Poem in Praise of Small-Beer. On the Success of his Grace the Duke of Marlborough. Helter-Skelter, or the Devil upon two Sticks. Journey to H -, in three Parts. Honesty in Distrest. With several other Poems never before Printed. Sold by B. Bragge, in Pater-noster-row. Where may be had the first and second Volumes, and the Friendly Correspondences, or Epistolary Satyrs upon Vertue and Vice, in several Letters, viz. A Letter from a reserv'd Gentleman in the Country to his extravagant Kinsman in Town, &c.

BOOKS set forth by Paul Lorrain , Ordinary of Newgate , viz,

††† The last Words of the Lady Margaret de la Musse ; and the Dying Man's Assistant. Both Printed for J. Lawrence, at the Angel in the Poultry. A Preparation for the Sacrament; and Moral and Divine Maxims. Printed for B. Aylmer at the 3 Pidgeons in Cornhil: And, A Guide to Salvation. Sold at the Star in St Pauls Church-yard, London.

A Cry from the Desart, or Testimonials of the Miraculous Things lately come to pass in the Cevennees, verified upon Oath, and by other Proofs, Translated from the Originals; Sold by B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-Row, where may be had the said Pamphlet in the French Tongue; and many Tracts relating between the Union of England and Scotland, viz. The Union Topknot, a Poem, &c.

Now Published

THE Historical Catechism, or an Explanation of the Old and New Testament, by way of Questions and Answers, after a more easy and familiar Manner than any hitherto Extant, very Edifying and Profitable for Children to Learn before they begin to read the Bible; By a Reverend Divine of the Church of England. The Life and Reign of Peter the 2d, late King of Portugal, Son to that Illustrious Prince John Duke of Braganza, who by his Valour and Conduct, rescu'd the Portugueze Nation from the Tyranny of Spain, also Younger Brother to that Unfortunate Prince Alphonso, from whom he extorted the Crown of Portugal under a specious Pretence of a voluntary Resignation. To which is added, a true Scheme of their Forces both by Sea and Land, &c. Both Sold by B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-Row.

RObert Whitledge , Book-binder at the Bible in Creed lane within Ludgate , can furnish all Booksellers, and others, with the Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack; and with all sorts of other Bibles and Common-Prayers, large and small, with Cuts or without, Rul'd or Unrul'd Bound in Turky-leather, or otherwise; extraordinary or plain, or unbound. Also the Statutes at large, and the Articles and Canons of the Church of England. Tate and Brady's new Version of the Singing Palms. The Common-Prayer in French. The new Book of Rates compleat. With all other Books neatly Bound.

THE Statutes at large, in 3 Vol. the new Edition, also a large Folio Common prayer of a Royal Paper, and Black Letter, printed at the Queen's Printing-House; and large Folio Bibles, fit for Churches and Families; Common-Prayers, and Bibles of all Sizes. Mr. Sturt's Cutts curiously ingrav'd Bound, Rul'd in Turky Leather, or Unrul'd. Dr. Gibson on the Sacrament. The Duty of Man's Works of all Sizes. All sold by Robert Whitledge , at the Sign of the Bible in Creed-Lane near Ludgate ; and sold by Francis Faucet , at the Exchange in the Strand .

Just Publish'd,

THE History of the Triumphs of Her Majesty's Arms both by Sea and Land in and about Spain during this War; more particularly under the Conduct of his Excellency Charles Earl of Peterborough and Monmouth, containing many secret Memoirs, Intriegues of State, Letters, &c. Together with the Picture of the said General finely Engraven on a Copper-Plate, The 2d Edition with Additions. The Wooden World dissected in the Characters: 1. A Ship of War. 2. A Sea Captain. 3. Sea Lieutenant. 4. A Sea Chaplain. 5. The Master of a Ship of War. 6. A Purser. 7. The Surgeon. 8. The Gunner. 9. The Carpenter. 10. The Boatswain. 11. A Sea Cook. 12. A Midshipman. 13. The Captains Steward. 14. A Sailor, &c. The 2d Edition corrected and amended, By a Lover of the Mathematicks. Both Sold by B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-Row.

A Certain, safe and infallible Cure for the Tooth-ach' without drawing or using any Mercureal Means and Charms, and that in a Moments time so effectually, that the Pain will never return again; not only so, but fastens those that are loose, as many in this City has found by Experience to their great ease and comfort. To be had at the Naked-boy, a Plummer's Shop near St Paul's Church-yard in Watling-street.

THERE is now prepared and to be Sold only at Mr. Deighton's, a Perfumer, at his Shop at the corner of Chancery-Lane in Fleet-street, the only famous Beautifying Water, for the clearing and making the Face fair, tho' of the brownish Complexion, which by its use has been experimented to make the Skin smooth and white and also to take off all Pimples and Redness, from 2s. 6d, to 5 s. a Bottle.

LONDON : Printed by by Dryden Leach in Dogwel Court in White Fryars .

