THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words OF THE MALEFACTORS Who were Executed at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 22d of NOVEMBER, 1742.

BEING THE FIRST EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Robert Willimot , Esquire .

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

Number I. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. GEORGE HEATHCOTE , Esquire, Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Sir JOHN STRANGE , Knt. Recorder ; and the Right Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and Others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the said City and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, for the City of London, and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Monday, the 9th, 10th, 11th, and 13th of September, in the Sixteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Ten Men, viz. John Cooper , John Jennings , John Squires , Edward White , Christopher Peterson , Matthew Mooney , George Anderson , Richard Studder , Henry Hinton , and William Edwards , and one Woman, viz. Jane Wood , were by the Jury convicted of capital Offences, and received Sentence of Death. Also,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. GEORGE HEATHCOTE , Esquire, Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Right Honorable the Lord Chief Justice LEE; the Honourable Mr. Baron REYNOLDS; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Deputy Recorder of London; and Others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday the 13th, 14th, and 15th of October, in the Sixteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. Richard Arnold , Robert Bird , or Budd , Thomas Homan , William Bird , and Wm. Dixon , were by the Jury capitally convicted, and sentenced to die.

While under Sentence, they were exhorted diligently to consider what a great Work they had to do, to secure themselves an Interest in the Kingdom of Heaven, which shall never be taken from them; and more especially, since their Time was so short, to double their Diligence, in working out the great Work of their Souls Salvation, while it is called to day; their eternal Happiness or Misery depending upon the few remaining Moments.

Being young, and grosly ignorant, they were carefully instructed in the first element of Religion, that there is one God, and one Mediator betwixt God and Man; the Man Jesus Christ, who gave himself a Ransom for all, to be testified in due Time. 1 Tim. ii. 5, 6.

The Viciousness of their Lives was also represented to them; how dreadful it is to depart from the true and living God, to trust in Vanities and Things of this World, to which they were wholly addicted; yet these Triffles could not in the least satisfy the Desires of an immortal Soul, which can acquiesce in nothing less than God Himself, who is the Author of our Being and Fountain of all our Mercies: And their whole Life having been nothing but a despising of God, and deviating from his Commandments and Ordinances, they were directed to turn the Bent of their Inclinations another Way, towards God and Christ, which as it is their Wisdom, much more is it their Interest so to do, as most agreeable to the Will of God, and most suitable to the rational Nature of Man.

Theft and Robbery being the Crimes most of of them suffered for; the Evil of this great Sin was particularly represented to them; how it was contrary to all Laws divine and human; and consequently liable to the Penalty, both temporal or eternal, annex'd to such Laws; the evil of Theft (as we told them) appears by the Injustice thereof, in wronging our Neighbour of his Right, and Property, to which we have no Title or Claim, on which Account it is prohibited by the express Law of God, Thou shalt not steal; it is the Will of God, that Man who is made after his Image, should live in a regular and rational Way, agreeable to the Doctrine of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. We are commanded by our Saviour to love all Men, to love our Neighbour as ourselves; but to rob and spoil them of their Goods and Property, is to devour and reduce them to Misery and Poverty, which is contrary to the Nature of God, who is good to all, whose Mercies are over all his Works, and his munificence extends to the righteous and the wicked, causing his Sun to enlighten the good and evil. And as to Highway Robberies, it was represented to them, they were next if not equal, to that most atrocious of all Sins and Crimes Murder, since in Case of the least Opposition, or resistance, they not only knock'd down, but kill'd and murther'd the Persons attack'd by them; as hath been frequently too often seen in the Streets and Neighbourhood of this City.

Two of them, William Bird and Thomas Homan , being convicted of Murther, it was represented to them, what a dreadful Thing it is to rob innocent Persons of their Lives in an unexpected Moment, and that it was most just with God to throw them into the Pit of Hell and everlasting Destruction on a sudden, for such barbarous Cruelty; the speciality of their Crimes was shewn them; the one, Homan, having murder'd an old, innoffensive Gentlewoman, his Neighbour, in a most cruel Manner, thinking to rob her of her Goods; the other, Bird, having, in a Way unparallel'd and unheard of, in a Hole, where there was not sufficient Air to breath in, thrust down twenty or thirty poor Women, taken off the Street, committed to his Care, many of whom were like to die, though by proper Care recover'd; but four of them, in that narrow confin'd Place, for want of Air, were actually stifled to death. For these most attrocious Crimes, they were exhorted to fly unto the Blood of Christ, which only can cleanse us from all Sin, to exercise in a lively Faith Christ's Merits and Intercession, and to repent deeply and sincerely of all their Sins, especially Murder, begging the Assistance of God's Grace and Holy Spirit, to enable them to work out their Salvation, and so to fit and dispose them for God's heavenly Kingdom and Glory.

Upon Thursday the 11th of November, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Sixteen Malefactors under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate; when Christopher Peterson , alias Jack the Sailor, for stealing an Oil-skin Bag, and 17 Pound Weight of Tea, the Property of Wm. Barton , out of the Shop of the said William Barton , February 10th. William Edwards , of St. George's Bloomsbury , for stealing one Piece of Gold Coin, Value 3 l 12 s. two Pieces of Gold Coin, Value 36 s. each, and four Pieces of Gold Coin called Guineas, Value 4 l. 4 s. the Property of Thomas Clarke , in the dwelling House of

the said Thomas Clarke , on the 22d of August last; Jane Wood , a Girl 14 Years old, for stealing 13 Guineas out of a chest of Drawers in the George Inn near St. Giles's in the Fields , being the Property of the Innkeeper; William Dixon , of St. George Bloomsbury , for stealing a silver Tankard, val. 7 l. the Goods of Joseph Aldin , in his Dwelling house, August 24, and William Bird , for that he on the 16th of July, in and upon one Phillis Wells , did feloniously, willfully, and of Malice aforethought, make an Assault, and her the said Phillis, then being in a certain close Room called the Hole, then being part of a Building called St. Martin's Round-house ; did feloniously, &c. confine and continue, against her Will, for 8 Hours, during 4 Hours of which Time 20 other Persons were confined in the said close Room, by the said William Bird , which was not of sufficient largeness to contain 20 Persons for 3 Hours without manifest Danger of their Lives, by which confining and continuing, by the said William Bird , she the said Phillis, on the 16th of July, within that close Room was suffocated, and of the said Suffocation died, and so William Bird on the Day, in the said Year, Parish and County, the said Phillis Wells , did feloniously, &c. kill and murther, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve, Bird to be Transported for Life, and the rest for 14 Years; the remaining 11, viz Edward White , Matthew Mooney , George Anderson , Richard Studdor , Henry Hinton , John Cooper , John Squire , John Jennings , Richard Arnold , Thomas Homan , and Robert Bird alias Budd, were order'd for Execution; but Budd on the Friday before their Execution receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for Transportation for 14 Years. Thomas Homan was order'd to be executed three Days before the rest, at the End of Fetter Lane in Holborn , in the publick Street, nearest to the Place where he murdered the old Gentlewoman, which was accordingly done.

Edward White was indicted for breaking open and entering the Dwelling House of Mary How , Widow , Sept. 2. in the Afternoon of the same Day, and stealing from thence 2 silver Stock-buckles, val. 2 s. a silvet Thimble, val. 6 d. 2 silk Handkerchiefs, val. 3 s. a piece of Gold Coin, val. 1 l. 1 s. and 2 l. 12 s. in Money, the Property of the said Mary How .

1. Edward White , 24 Years of Age, born at or near Holloway , of honest Parents, who were able and willing to give him good Education at School, but that he minded not, having been so negligent of Instructions, that he had forgot either to Read or Write, being grosly ignorant of his Duty both to God and Man. He was not put to any Trade, but his Father being a Waggoner , he followed that Business, and traded that Way to many Places in the Country, coming to London now and then about his Affairs, he got acquainted with very bad Company both Men and Women, wito whom he became a notorious Drunkard, Swearer, Blasphemer, ad a common Thief. In short, he was a Nusance to the Country, and a mischievous Fellow, and was likewise looked upon as a dangerous Person by the Country People. He said that keeping wicked Women Company was his Ruin, which put him upon Robbing and Stealing in order to supply their Profuseness. He was not willing to confess any more Burglaries but this and another, but own'd himself to have been guilty of innumerable small Thefts. He was a very ignorant, vicious young Man, and while under Sentence, a Gentleman came to the Press-Yard, and earnestly entreated him for God's Sake to think upon nothing but Death, for the whole Country was so exasperated, that before he should escape, they would prosecute him cost what it wou'd, to which being harden'd he said little or nothing. He swore himself an Accomplice in robbing Alice Perry , in Holloway Road Nov. 1, 1739. He was likewise by his own Confession, concern'd in the Murder of Thomas Wall , Sept. 14, 1740 by the Hole in the Wall near Canbury-House Islington ; this Thomas Wall was carried to St. Bartholomew's Hospital , where he died after ten Days Illness, his Skull having been broke and shatter'd in a desperate Manner. He confessed himself to be a very wicked young Man, and that he had committed the Burglary for which he died for, and acknowledged that he suffered most deservedly according

to Law. About a Year or two ago he was an Evidence against some others, but they were acquitted, he being so notorious and vile a Fellow, that they did not confide in what he said; he was often turbulent in Chapel, but when I saw him, he was very quiet, and denied all. It was a hard Matter to judge him, not having many outward Signs of Repentance, tho' he said he believed in Christ, and died in Peace with all Men.

Matthew Mooney of Stepney , was indicted for that he on the 29th of April last, on the King's Highway, in and upon one Abraham Goodwin , did make an Assault, and put the said Abraham Goodwin in Fear and Danger of his Life, and took from him a Watch, val. 5 l. 5 s. a Seal, value 2 s. a Snuff-box, val. 20 s. and 18 d. in Silver, the Property of the said Abraham Goodwin .

2. Matthew Mooney , 21 Years of Age, was born at Dublin , of honest tho' mean Parents, who gave him pretty good Education, such as to Read, Write, &c. As to Religion, they bred him up in the Romish Way . His Father was a Cabinet maker, and he was likewise bound to the same Trade , at which he served his Time out honestly, and was honourably discharg'd. When he came for himself he lived very well by his Business, and married a Wife, by whom he had a Child, but since dead at Dublin . From thence he came to London as he said, in the beginning of May last, although the Robbery of Mr. Goodwin near Mile End was committed on the 29th of April last, which seems impossible for one to commit a Robbery on the 29th of April at London , and to be working at his Business, and going upon some publick Diversions on the 2d or 3d of May, which for an Evidence he called one Thomas Mooney , who proved to be the Prisoner's Father, and who most probable perjured himself in swearing to favour his Son, but had the Mortification not to be believ'd. Mooney own'd he was acquainted with the Evidence Cavenagh, who convicted him; Mooney and his Father reflected mightily upon him that he did not swear exactly according to Truth, but wrong'd him in many Particulars. Another Man of the Name of Cavenagh swore against Mooney sometime before he was taken up for this Fact, and upon that he was committed and detained in Newgate till this Robbery appear'd, which brought him to this last and fatal Catastrophe. He was of the Romish Communion , but was not bigotted in that Way, for he constantly came to Chapel, made Responses, and sung Psalms with the rest, and always behav'd decently, better then most of the others. He denied his committing any other Thefts or Robberies, but own'd he was very vicious and wicked as to Drinking, Swearing, and keeping reprobate Company, which last prov'd his Ruin. He wept and cried very much for his Misfortunes, died in the Faith of Christ, and repented of all his Sins.

Richard Arnold was indicted for assaulting Bernard Gates on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him 15 s. in Money, Sept. 28.

3. Richard Arnold , 33 Years of Age, was born at Market Harborough in Leicestershire , of honest Parents, his Father who rented a small Farm, gave him good Education at School, so far as to Read, Write, &c. and had him instructed in the Christian Faith. He was not brought up to any Trade, but learned to do Country Work with his Father, and likewise serv'd Gentlemen and Farmers, from whom he acquir'd the Character of an honest, careful, industrious Man. Some Years ago he came to Town, and served in many good and creditable Families , particularly an honourable Gentleman, whom he serv'd some considerable Time, and with Reputation, insomuch that he would have been ready to do him any Favour if he had persisted in the Path of Virtue. He married a Wife, who was a Widow, and by whom had 2 Children; both he and his Wife happening to fall sick, and afflicted with a lingering Disease, render'd them both uncapable of any Business whatever. Richard gave him

self over to a kind of Despair, and resolved in his own wicked Mind to raise Contributions on the Highway, tho' in the preceeding Part of his Life no Man was reckon'd honester; accordingly he provided himself with a Pistol, some Powder and Ball, and hired a Horse with one Eye in Finsbury Yard Moorfields , and upon the 28th of Sept, he went to try his Fortune that Way, and riding along between Hendon-Common and Ealing , he met Mr. Gates and Mr. Laurence, and riding up between them, he first presented his Pistol to Mr. Laurence, but on a sudden he turned about the Horse and attacked Mr. Gates, he being something better dressed then the other, and demanded his Money, which he very freely gave him to the Value of 15 s. all which Mr. Gates could swear to, being 2 Crown Pieces of King William's, and one of King Charles's, with which he had travelled in his Pocket up and down the Country upon many Occasions. As this happen'd, the Right Honourable the Lord Carpenter was coming to Town from his Lordship's Country Seat, and Laurence having escaped being robb'd, rode directly up to his Lordship's Coach and related what had befallen him; upon which his Lordship was so kind as to order 2 or 3 Servants of his Retinue to pursue the Robber, which they very readily did, and overtook him at a Publick House by the Highway not far off, drinking a Pint of Beer. Hereupon one of the Servants said, Honest Man you have taken the wrong Trade in Hand. He was very sick and weakly, looking rather as if he was dead than alive, having only a Great Coat on, with his Face muffled up, but was not otherways disguised; the poor Fellow immediately confessed the whole Matter, upon which they carried him back to my Lord their Master, and his Lordship being a Middlesex Justice took his Confession in Writing, which the Prisoner signed. Mr. Gates also who was robbed knew Arnold, and swore to his Face, upon which he was committed to Newgate , and received his deserved Doom. This was the first and last Robbery he ever committed, as he declared upon his being taken to my Lord Carpenter, and his Lordship's Servants who apprehended him, and likewise to me and others. He had no Accomplices, nor knew none of their Gangs, being but a meer Novice in that Way; and he further solemnly declared upon the Word of a dying Man, that it was absolutely Necessity, his Wife being lame and sick, and he himself sick and distressed, and having nothing to supply their Wants, but both ready to perish, knowing no Remedy, which drove him to this desperate and unhappy Course.

While under Sentence, he was all the Time very sick and weak, and with great difficulty came up and down to Chapel; yet he never absented, but sometimes when very bad. He behaved well, and was very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, so that we may hope he was a sincere penitent. He believed in Christ our only Saviour; repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

John Cooper , John Squire , and John Jennings , were indicted (together with James Stuart , and George Ewins , not yet taken) for that they, in a certain Place near the King's Highway, called Grace's-Alley , upon Joseph Daniel , did make an Assault, and put him in corporal Fear, taking from him a Wooden-Box sixteen Metal Spurs, one Cock, and thirty Shillings in Money, the Property of the said Joseph Daniel .

4. John Cooper , 20 Years of Age, his Father was a Weaver from Worcester, and came to live in London many Years ago; and about 3 Years since he died, and much about the same Time his Mother also.

They liv'd in Southwark , and being very poor, could not give their Son John any tolerable Education, and what he got, he was sure to make no good Improvement of it, being of a very wicked, perverse and dogged Temper, so that he forgot all his Learning, and knew very little of Religion.

When of Age, he was put Apprentice to a Fisherman on the Bank-side , which Trade he liked best, and made it his Choise; his Master and Mistress let him want for nothing of Entertainment, as to Meat and Drink, or other Things which they were oblig'd to find him; but in other Respects, when going about his Business on the River, he treated him most barbarously, beating

him in a most cruel Manner with Ropes, Sticks, and whatever came to Hand; by which means he lived a most miserable and slavish Life, constantly exposed to the imminent Danger of his Life by such cruel Hardships and Blows.

Living thus miserably, as they were careless of the Body, so as little did they mind the Soul of this unfortunate Creature; for seldom if ever did he go to Church, neither had he any Fear of God before his Eyes. His Master dying, John was put to his Shifts; his Mistress though inclining to keep up the Business, not being well capable to do it, was willing however to give up John's Indentures, but could not find a Master; whereupon, having nothing to do, John took himself to the Company of bad Women, which was the ready Way to his compleat Ruin, for he lived with a common Creature equally wicked as himself.

In effect, in his natural Disposition, he was very wicked and perverse; for upon the Sunday before his Trial, he misbehaved in Chappel, and endeavoured to spit on the Pulpit and Desk; when I reproved him sharply for so vile a Miscarriage; he had the Impudence to deny the same, although I myself was witness to it.

He was a most vicious and wicked Fellow, knowing nothing but what was evil, and averse to every Thing that is good, being associated with the vilest Gang of Thieves and Whores about Rag-fair where he lodged.

Before this, he also confessed three or four Street-robberies; and before he died, five or six Days, being past all Hopes of Life, he confessed he could not tell the Number he was guilty of with these abandoned Wretches he had joined to; and as to petty Thefts and Larcenies, they were innumerable; he having been nothing but a common professed Thief and Robber from his Cradle, to the Time of his Apprehension for this Robbery, which brought him to the fatal Tree; though as for his unlawful Profits, the highest Prize he got was 20 Shillings at a Time, and very seldom so much.

As to his Behaviour, he was a most insolent and wicked young Fellow; one of the chief Occasions of several little Disturbances and Disorders in Chappel, was the Lenity and mild Government in keeping him so long under Sentence, it rather hardens, than has any good Effects upon many of these obdurate and reprobate Creatures.

For these Miscarriages, he and his wicked Associates were sharply reproved, and instructed to behave in a decent and Christian Manner: They fairly promised, but did not long keep his Resolutions, untill the Dead-Warrant came down; then Cooper and his Companions altered their Behaviour, and cryed most bitterly, declaring their hearty Grief and Sorrow for their Miscarriages.

He was a miserable poor Creature, and had no body at all to come after him; as for his pretended Wife, she never came to ask for him.

Upon Wednesday the 3d of November, Cooper and Squire, when they came up to the Afternoon Prayers, slipt down from Chappel towards the Master's Side, and skult about some of the Rooms till one of the Runners went after them and brought them back, and then they were confined to their Cells a short Time for their ill Behaviour.

John Cooper was a very profligate unthinking ignorant Youth. I did what I could to instruct him, as Time would allow, though his Capacity was weak. He believed in Christ our only Saviour, repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Men, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

5. John Squire , condemned for the same Robbery with the above John Cooper , nigh 17 Years of Age, of honest credible Parents in the Borrough, who gave him good Education at School, to Read, Write, Latin, Arithmetick, &c and had him instructed in our most holy Christian Religion. When of Age, he was not put to a Trade, but his Father being an Inn-keeper, he did Business for him, helping him to keep the Books and do other Things about the Inn . He was always much inclined to thieving and stealing, having got Acquaintance with some of the Gangs, particularly that Gang about Rag-Fair , who brought all the three Brothers in Iniquity to speedy Destruction.

After this, he despised and neglected all Religion, went no more to Church, but lived like a Reprobrate, casting the Fear of God behind

his Back, and as he loved not to retain God in his Knowledge, so God gave him up to a reprobate Sense, to practise Lies, and commit all Manner of Abominations, being a notorious breaker of the Sabbath, keeping Company with lewd Women, &c. The Robbery they died for he confest, that they stopt and robb'd Joseph Daniel in Grace's-Alley , and took from him the Cock-Spurs, and what other Things are mentioned in the Indictment; and besides he owned 6 other Street-Robberies he had a Hand in perpetrating; for all which and most scandalous Life, he having done innumerable petty Thefts, he was heartily grieved, and profest a deep Penitence. He blamed nobody for what he did, only his own vicious Inclinations; he wept and profest a deep Penitence, behav'd pretty well upon all Occasions, was very sick a long Time, but recovered and continued indifferent till the Dead-Warrant came down, then he wept and lamented with the rest. He believed Christ our only Saviour, repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

7. John Jennings , 19 Years of Age, born of honest mean Parents in Three Tun-Alley , Allhallows, London Wall ; who gave him indifferent Education at School to Read, &c. and was instructed in the Christian Religion. His Father was a Bricklayer, and John was put to a Clog maker , but not approving of that Trade he went to another, to which he had no better liking, not caring to be confined to any Business whatever, but spent his Time in a foolish idle Way, with wicked profligate Boys, who led him into all manner of Vice and Corruption, and kept the vilest Company both of Men and Women; one of whom he lived with a considerable Time as Man and Wife, and to be sure she gave him no good Advice, but hurry'd him on to Ruin He was a profane, wicked Boy, and for a considerable Time before he was taken up went to no Church, but led a most dissolute Life.

He did not confess to me any more Robberies, but own'd a great number of small Thefts, he constantly did as occasion offer'd; and in Alleviation of his Guilt in this Affair, he said, he was no farther concern'd in the Robbery, only that he was present at the Time of committing it, he being 7 Yards distant, and did not help them take any Thing from Mr. Daniel; but if this were true, he was equally guilty with the rest, he going out with them, and being present with an Intent to aid and assist them. He wept and lamented grievously, promising Amendment, and made strong Resolutions if he was spared, and professed Penitence. He was acquainted with too many of the Gangs, so that it would have been a hard Matter to reclaim him.

He declared that he was led aside to these wicked Courses by Cooper and Squire, who in consequence was his entire Ruin. The first Day they came to Chapel he misbehaved, but promised Amendment for the future, which Promise he did not fully perform; he blamed some of Anderson's Companions on the other side of the Table, yet he was one of the most regular of them as to his Carriage, and on Wednesday the 17th Instant, the Day before Homan's Execution, he receiv'd the blessed Sacrament with him very devoutly, when the others would not until their Time was nearer. In all Probability if he had lived longer, he would have committed a great deal of more Wickedness, but he was cut off in due Time, and cropt in the Bud. He believed in Christ the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners, heartily repented of a scandalous Life, and was in Peace with all Men.

George Anderson , Richard Studder , and Henry Hinton , of St. John Wapping , were indicted for feloniously breaking open and entering the House of John Inwood , about the Hour of 1 at Night, and taking from thence 3 Pieces of Cantalloon Stuff, 80 Yards one Piece of printed Linnen, 22 Yards, 14 Ells of Linnen, and 2 Remnants of Bays, all to the Value of 4 l. the Property of John Inwood July 23.

Richard Studder was a 2d Time indicted for stealing 2 Geese, val. 3 s. 1 Duck, val. 6 d 2 Game Cocks, val. 5 s. 1 Hen, val. 2 s. 6 d. the Goods of John Hawes , July 17. And

John Anderson for receiving the same, knowing them to be stolen.

No Prosecutor appearing, they were acquitted.

8. George Anderson , 32 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in Southwark , who gave him Education at School to Read, Write, and Arithmetic, and instructed in the Principles of Christia

nity. When of Age he was put out to a Shoemaker in Wapping , with whom he served his Time honestly, and afterwards work'd for himself, and married a Wife, but had the good Fortune to have no Children alive, when he was taken up for this Burglary he died for. Fourteen or 15 Year ago he listed in the 2d Regiment of his Majesty's Foot Guards , but mostly lived by making and mending Shoes .

This Anderson, Studder and Hinton, were convicted upon the Evidence of Thomas Studder , Brother to Richard Studder , who made himself a voluntary Evidence to save his Life, and hang his own Brother. They said Thomas Studder persuaded Anderson and Hinton to commit the Robbery which they died for. Anderson said that he was never before concern'd in any Highway Robberies or Burglaries but this for which he was convicted, and was always honest, excepting a few triffling Things he might have taken: He cried and was penitent, behaving always very decently, only he said he was acquainted with a Name-sake of his who was a notorious Thief and Robber, but did not go along with him in his vile Practices. He believ'd in Christ his Saviour, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

8. Richard Studder , convicted for the above Burglary with Anderson, was 24 Years of Age, born of honest but mean Parents in Spittle-fields , who put him to School, but being negligent as to taking his Learning, he had forgot almost all which he learnt. His Father who was a Weaver , bred his Son Richard to the same Business, but he taking no Delight therein, but rather chose a loose vagrant Life, which occasioned him to take up a small Way of Trading in the Country, chiefly in Essex , but sometimes he went down to Northamptonshire , and likewise other Counties; he dealt in China Dishes , which he sold up and down the Country. His Brother Thomas who was Evidence against him, Hinton, and Anderson, his Companions in travelling, and Brethren in Iniquity.

His Wife used to travel the Countries with him, and as they disposed of them to the best Advantage, so they never omitted employing their Hands to pick up and carry off whatever they could lay hold on, and one of the chief Things they dealt in was Fowls, which they stole in their Way as Opportunity offer'd.

George Anderson , and Thomas Studder the Evidence, were the Persons who first put Richard Studder on this wicked Way of Life, which once engaged in, is not easy to leave off; for having once enter'd into a Gang, if any one breaks off, they have another's Life in their Power, giving Informations against their wicked Companions, and then they become Evidences for the King, and hang one another, which was the Case with Richard Studder , for his own Brother Thomas inform'd against him and the other two, Anderson and Hinton, upon whose Evidence they all three were executed.

Studder for some Years past lived by Thieving wherever he went, and trading with China Ware being only a Pretence to hide his vile Practices. He behav'd pretty well, came always to Chapel, and was very quiet, acknowledging the Crime he died for, the Justice of his Sentence, and that he most deservedly suffered, professing Penitence for a most profligate Life, especially with wicked Women, to whom he was much addicted.

His youngest Brother came sometimes to visit him, said, (that on Saturday the 30th of Oct. Richard's Wife, who before that came enquiring after him every Day, and was always loitering about the Doors of Newgate, bringing him any small Thing she could get for his Support) she was married to a Sailor bound to the East-Indies or China; this the Woman denied, but the Boy affirmed it for certain Truth to his own Knowledge; she came sometimes after that to see Richard, but did not seem to be much concern'd about him.

This proved an unfortunate Family, having 3 Brothers all equally wicked, Thieves and Robbers, tho' the 4th or eldest Brother is a good, virtuous, regular Man. Richard with the others who were not very regular in their Carriage before, but after the Dead Warrant came out, became more circumspect and serious in their Preparations for Eternity. Studder hoped to obtain Mercy from God through the Merits of Jesus

Christ, repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Mankind, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

Henry Hinton , for the above Burglary with Anderson and Studder, is 19 Years of Age, had little or no Education at School, and had forgot all that was given him, and could neither Read nor Write: His Father was a Shoe-maker in Wapping , and intended to have bred up the Son in his own Way, but he dying and leaving the Son young, Henry left his Father's Business, and being of an unconstant Temper, not willing to be confined, he left the Shoemaking, and join'd the Company of the Studder's, a Gang of Thieves, travelling most of the Kingdom with their China-ware, which was a Blind to conceal their Rogueries.

He was a most notorious Thief, upon all Occasions, stealing whatever he could lay his Hands upon; but it was generally but small Things, of no great Value, which was not Capital, but a single Felony; though this was an inlet to greater Crimes, which brought him to speedy Destruction. He was not guilty of any more Burglaries than this he died for, likewise said, he never committed any Street or Highway Robberies. He confest the Crime he died for, that they broke open the House, carried off the Goods, and disposed of them as they could. Studder and Hinton were taken at Mother Rippons at Epping , a House where such People haunt. One of the Evidences declared, there were sixty of that Gang they belong'd to, and in the Neighbourhood, they were so notorious, that People were afraid to stir out of Doors; Studder and another Person, who was lately an Evidence, and tried for his Life, though no Evidence appearing, were acquitted. The above three, Anderson, Studder, and Hinton, were very ignorant. Hinton behaved pretty well, and better than some of the nest. He hoped for Salvation through Christ, repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all the World.

For Mr. Applebee, to be given to my Mother.

Dear Mother!

I HAVE just made a Shift to write these few Lines, with my own Hand, that you may be assured it comes from me, to desire you not to afflict yourself too much, nor to mind what the World say; if they should reflect upon you, since you know yourself and I have declared to several, that had I taken your Advice, I should not have come to this untimely End; but since it is my Misfortune to suffer this Shameful Death, I hope nobody will be so cruel to add to your Grief, by reflecting upon you; for I all my Life, by doing a great many Things contrary to your Will: nay, at any Time, when you have reproved me, and said to me, Jack, be a good Boy; I have swore and curst at you, because you thwarted me, and would not let me have my Will; I hope however, Dear Mother, you will forgive me for all my Wickedness, as I hope God will forgive both you and me. So no more at present, for my Time is short and very precious, from your unfortunate Son,

John Jennings .

From my Cell in Newgate , Nov. 21, 1742.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

MONDAY Morning before they went out, they desired and received the blessed Sacrament of our Lord's Supper devoutly, and they were very serious at Prayers and singing of Psalms; then they were carried to the Place of Execution in three Carts.

In the first Cart, were Richard Studder , Matthew Mooney , and Edward White ; in the second, John Squiers , John Jenings , and George Anderson ; and in the third, Richard Arnold , John Cooper , and Henry Hinton .

They appeared with great Seriousness and great Concern, seeming very devout at Prayers, and singing a proper Psalm. Matthew Mooney most of the Time read in some little Book, and that so loud, as I was obliged to desire him to read more softly, that the others might hear me praying for them in their last Moments: he also reflected on the Evidence, as if he swore away his Life wrongfully, and this he repeated very often. John Jenings deliver'd a Paper, signifying, that he was a most wicked young Man, that he suffer'd deservingly, desiring all young Men to take Example from him, and not to be disobedient to their Parents and Relations. He desired the Prayers of all good Christians, and hop'd for Mercy through our blessed Redeemer. Edward White hop'd that nobody would reflect upon his Parents or Family. The rest of them had no more to add to their Confessions. They went off the Stage, crying to God to have Mercy upon them, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

N. B. Richard Arnold denied that he sold his Body for seven Shillings, or any Money whatsoever to any Surgeon.

This is all the Account given by me

JAMES GUTHRIE , Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

The following ACCOUNT, EDWARD WHITE gave of himself some few Days before his Execution.

EDWARD WHITE , 24 Years of Age, was born at Finchley , of honest Parents; his Mother keeps a Publick-House at Holloway ; he never was at any School in his Life, as he said; but tha Thomas Homan (who was executed for the Murder of Mrs. Dix) was very helpful to him by reading to him, and the other Prisoners. When he came to Years capable of working, he went to Day-labour with one Mr. Simmond's, a Cow keeper , by the Half way House going to Highgate , at 4 s. per Week, and used to look after his Cattle. He lived with him about 12 Months, and after he left his Service, went to live with one Mr. Best, at Bow's Farm , where he continued there about two Years; Afterwards he went to live with Mr. Lidger in Edgware Parish , where he went also to Day Labour

After this, he went to Mr. Edwards, at Copenhagen House , where he lived between three or four Years; but has had no settlement since; but has followed an idle Course of Life, which has brought him to this unhappy End, upwards of three or four Years. He declared, that he never wrong'd Mr. Edwards of any Thing, but seven Pound of old Iron, about nine Months ago, which he said he sold for seven Pence in Mutton-Lane .

When he lived with his Father and Mother, there was one S - E - kept a publick House at Holloway , who harbour'd a Parcel of lewd Women, where he used to resort and spent his Money; and when he had spent his ALL, they told him he might go and get more how he could. Accordingly he robbed his Father and Mother of 4 or 5 Shillings at a Time, and used to go and spend it there. One of the young Women said, if he could get any Money, she would go into the Country with him, and in order to comply to her Request, he robbed one Mary Hudson , of five Pounds, and took Trunk and all; then the young Woman and he went to the White lion at Mims-Wash , and lived there as Man and Wife, 'till the Money was gone, when they fell out, and she left him.

When he lived with Mr. Edwards, he used one B - s, at the C -, not far from Islington Workhouse ; which, he said is a very bad House, and has been the Ruin of him. There he got acquainted with † Patrick Hagan , John Crossly , and William Rawlins ; they all four, as he says, went out together; the first Person they robbed, was one sells Cheesecakes on Finchley-Common , from whom they took 4 s. they came back to B - 's, and spent the Money. The next Night they went on the long Causey between Islington and Holloway ; staid sometime and found nothing for their Purpose; upon which they all agreed to go to Mr. Lewis's to drink: while they were there, in comes a Woman who serv'd Mr. Lewis with Butter: Imagining she had got Money, they staid till she went out, and follow'd her, and knock'd her down, and robb'd her of Four-pence Half-penny and some Silver, Keys and a Lump of Butter. As she cried out, Crossly put his Hand to her Mouth, to prevent her making a Noise; but they did not abuse her. They continued on the Causey about 3 Hours, and went to stop a Man on Horseback; but he clapped Spurs to his Steed, rode over Rawlin's, and got off.

After this, they saw one Thomas Wall , who lived at Mr. Harris's at Highbury Barn , coming up† White was an Evidence against Patrick Hagan , alias Egan , John Crossley , and William Rawlins , for the Murder of Thomas Wall ; and likewise for several other Robberies; but they were all three acquitted. See Sessions Paper No. VI. in the Mayoralty of Daniel Lambert , Esq ;

the Cross Field, just by Canbury House ; he was very merry and singing; upon which, Patrick Hagan the Irishman, said, he would soon stop his Singing. Accordingly, when he came by the Hole in the Wall , Patrick Hagan attempted to stop him, but the Man knocked him down; however Hagan soon recovered himself, and knock'd him down in return, with a great Broomstick. After which, he said, let us knock his Brains out, for he knows us. To this, White replied, (if he is to be believ'd) don't kill him; but says Hagan, I will, and swore a great Oath; so he follow'd his Blows, till they left him for dead. This done, they searched him, but he had no Money, nor any thing of Value about him, not so much as a Handkerchief. White alledged as an Excuse, that they used him so cruelly, because he resisted them; how this Excuse will pass in the next World, let any one consider; however that be, the poor Man died in the Hospital, about a Fortnight or 3 Weeks after, of the Wounds he then received. After this, they went to B - and the Landlady said to Hagan, How came you to be so bloody? I am afraid you have been doing what you should not do. He said, they had not; if you have not, said she, it is very well. They told her they had no Money, so she trusted them; then they all went Home to Bed; he lived at this Time with his Father, and used to get in at the Window, so that his Father and Mother thought he was at home all Night.

Sometime after, they robbed one Philip Wecks , at Cuckold's Corner , of 4 Guineas, a Silk Handkerchief, and a Pair of Garters; they watched till he went out to milk his Cows, and then got into the House. After this, they robbed Mr. Edwards, a Farmer at Hornsey , of between three and four Pounds in Silver, and some odd Money, such as Pence, Two Pences and Groats: In order to this, they watched till he went out, and the rest of the Family were in the Yard before the House, when they broke in backwards; while they were thus employed, one of his Daughters hearing a Noise, cried out; upon which his three Accomplices made their Escape, but White was taken and carried to New-Prison , and was admitted an Evidence, as mention'd before. Page 11.

After he was discharged, he went to live with Mr. Haley, in Edgware Road near Kilburn ; but when his Master came to hear what Pranks he had committed, he turn'd him away. He work'd then with another Master about 3 Weeks, when he was turn'd off, and immediately after committed the Robbery for which he suffer'd, which was done after this Manner.

He hid himself in a back Building, belonging to his Master where he had work'd, and where were 30 or 40 old Chairs, so that there was no Room for him to lie down, but upon a Board which lay upon three Chairs. He had not been long there before the Chairs and he came down together, the Noise of which alarming a Woman at the next Door; she came down, and asked him what Business he had there? he pretended himself to be in Liquor; she thinking he was so went away; but as soon as she was gone he went to the backside of Mr. How's House, and took down a board, where there was a Hole just big enough for him to get in. He went first to the Cellar, and finding nothing there for his Purpose, he stole up Stairs and open'd 2 Chests of Drawers, in one of which he found only one Handkerchief, and in the other a Guinea in Gold, a Crown Piece, 14 or 15 s. in Half-pence, two silver Stock-buckles, and a silver Knee-buckle; when he had made sure of these, he made the best of his Way, he had not got above a Field off before he sat down to tell the Half-pence which he had in his Hat, and put them into a Handkerchief. The Weight of the Half-pence tearing the Handkerchief, he put them into his Hat again, and went to the White-Bear at Hendon , where he called for a Pint of Beer. The Landlord (seeing so many Half-pence in his Hat) told him, he had been at a good Hole to Day; to which he answer'd, his Master paid him in Half-pence.

After he had drank his Beer, he went to Brains street, and going along met one of his Acquaintance, says he, how came you in this Country? White replied, he came about a little Business, and asked his Friend if they could not have a Dram together; he answer'd yes, and accordingly they drank 2 Pints of Two-penny, and some Gin; by which Time he was so much in Liquor, that he tumbled down in the Road. Soon after there was a Noise of the Robbery, and the Woman who saw him in his Master's

House describing him, his Master who he said, knew the Way he used to go, pursued and took him.

He declar'd he was married at the Fleet to a young Woman whom he got acquainted with at Mr. Philpot's, the White Horse at Holloway ; but did not live with her above a Fortnight or three Weeks before he left her, and she is since gone down into the Country to her Friends.

He said his Master and Mistress Edwards who live at Copenhagen House , were very kind to him, and always gave him very good Advice, which he now wishes he had followed; because if he had, he should never have came to this ignominious Death. He exclaimed also against one of his Acquaintance, who, he says, is possessed of a very pretty Fortune, and yet used to entice him to play at Cards all Sunday at B - 's; and if he had the Misfortune to lose, wou'd persuade him to rob his Father and Mother. He wish'd therefore the Gentlemen in the Commission of the Peace for that Part of the Country, would put down that House, which is a downright Nursery for Vice, and Harbour for Thieves and Whores. He begged also that nobody would reflect on his poor Mother, because she was quite a Stranger to his Way of Life, and declared the Grief his untimely End would be to her, shock'd him more than what he was to suffer himself, and concluded with desiring all young Persons to take Warning by his Fall.

The following is the Account of MATTHEW MOONEY , taken from his own Mouth some few Days before his Execution.

MAtthew Mooney , aged 21 Years, was born of honest Parents in Dublin ; his Father, who was a Cabinet Maker, and had left off Trade, brought him up in the Roman Catholick Religion , and went to School to one Mr. Hoyle in Patrick's Close , where he continued three Years, and then went to Mr. Newby's in Vicker's street , where he learned Reading, Writing, and Arithmetic. When he was fit, he was bound Apprentice to one Mr. Hastin, a Cabinet-maker in Dublin , with whom he lived three Years, and was afterwards turned over to one Mr. Ingam, and served the remaining Part of his Time with him, and even worked as a Journeyman with him and his Brother till he left Ireland, which was in May last. He came to Town, as he says, on Purpose to go to Sea, if he could not get Work at his Trade; adding, that he was married about a Quarter of a Year before he came out of his Time; that his Wife is now in Ireland , by whom he has had one Child which died, and that she was with Child again when he came away.

When he came first to Town, he lodged at one Gearings by Broad St. Giles's , and from thence he removed to one Knight's in East-Smithfield : He had not been long there, before he enter'd himself on Board the Antelope Man of War, as a Ship Carpenter , but left the Ship after he had been on Board six Weeks. He came then to Knight's again, and was taken ill of a Fever; upon which Lot Cavenagh , who was a Surgeon's Mate on Board a Man of War, was sent for, and he blooded him. Before he was recover'd of his Sickness, Lot Cavenagh was taken, and swore two Robberies against him, one committed on a Gentleman in Holborn , who lost his Sword, and the other on a Coach in Tottenham-court Road ; tho' he says (if you will believe him) he knew no more of it than the Child unborn. Being committed to Newgate , he lay till the next Sessions, for Lot Cavenagh could not get any Bill found; after which he was carried before Justice Poulson, and swore against for another Robbery, upon which he was capitally convicted upon the Evidence of a Person, who, as he said, came with Lot Cavenagh when he came to bleed him. He desired therefore and hopes, that all young Men will take particular Care what Company they keep; and likewise be very cautious what Houses they resort to, especially a House which is kept by one A - n in Church-Lane by White chappel In Effect 'tis Pity the Parishioners of the Parishes where such Houses are do not get them suppressed. He was so far from repining at the manner of his Death, that he said, were it not for the Shame, it was the best Exit a Man cou'd make, because being in Health he was the better able to prepare for Eternity. He was very desirous of having the Account of his dying Behaviour publish'd before his Execution; and being answer'd, it was impossible; reply'd it was very common in Dublin , which is a plain Demonstration that he was a downright Teaguelander.

The following LETTER Mooney sent to his Wife at Dublin .

My dear Wife.

” WITH Sorrow I write to you, for I am “ under more Concern for your dear self “ than for my own unhappy Misfortune; but I “ hope the Lord will be your Guide and protect “ you from all Harm, which may attend your “ dear Person. I am at this Time of Writing “ under Sentence of Death, and confin'd in the “ dismal Cells of Newgate , where is likewise 10 “ more of us, for different Crimes.

“ I was tried and convicted for the Highway, “ and the young Man who was a Companion “ with me in the Robbery was an Evidence against me. I freely forgive him, and I hope “ he will take Warning by my untimely End; “ if not, I am afraid he will shortly be under “ the same Misfortune, which through my own “ vicious Inclinations, has brought me to the dismal and melancholy Place where I now lie “ confined till I go to the fatal Tree.

“ My Father is here, and takes on at my unhappy State, that I am afraid he will break his “ Heart. I shall suffer in 3 Weeks, or a Month “ at farthest; the Lord have Mercy on my “ poor Soul; I beg you will keep out of Men's “ Company. These are my dying Words, and “ keep them for my Sake, no more,

I am your unfortunate Husband,

Matthias Mooney .

Remember me to my Mother.

Newgate , Oct. 27.

For Molley Greham , living at Mrs. Mooney's facing the Cross-Keys in Plunket-street , Dublin .

The following is an Account which RICHARD STUDDER gave of himself.

RICHARD Studder , about 24 Years of Age, was born of honest Parents in White-Chapel , his Father who was a Weaver, put him to School to Mr. Russel at the Hand and Pen in Baker's-Row , but he could not read, for he would never take his Schooling. His Parents dying when he was young, he was at a Loss where to go, or what to do; so he applied himself to his elder Brother Thomas Studder , who was Evidence against him, George Anderson and Henry Hinton , and who, he declar'd, was the Occasion of his coming to this unhappy End. He never was bound Apprentice to any Trade, but used to travel with his Brother about the Country selling Goods ; and since that his Wife and he used to go about with Earthern Ware upon a Horse ; he said farther, that he rented a private House in Ratcliff Highway , kept as good a Table as need to be, and did not want for 20 or 30 l. at any Time; but he seem'd to equivocate, and was very unwilling to own any other Robberies than that for which he was to suffer.

He said the first Robbery he committed was at the Instigation of his own Brother: that he had committed some Robberies since, but none of any Consequence. This he again contradicted, at last affirming, he never committed any other Robbery than that which he was now to answer for, of which he gave the following Account, viz. That he and Hinton had been drinking together, and were going along Wapping , with a Design to steer directly Home, but met his Brother and Anderson together. He passed them however, and went on, but missing Hinton out of his Company, stopped, then Hinton called to him and said, Dick here's your Brother, notwithstanding which he did not care to go back; so his Brother came to him, and persuaded him to accompany them: he added, that he did not know what they were going about, and that even when they committed this Robbery, he did not any ways assist them himself, but only was along with them. In Effect he did not want for Money all the while he was in Newgate , which was about 4 Months, so that he had no Occasion to have committed this Fact.

Edward White said, that Richard Studder had declared to him, that his Wife was married to another Husband before the dead Warrant came down, however, Studder said he knew nothing of it, neither did he believe it, because she came to visit him every Day, and seemed to sympathize with him in his Misfortunes.

The following Account John Jennings gave of himself.

JOHN Jennings thinks he is about 19 Years of Age, and was born of honest Parents in Three-Tun-Alley , Allhallows, London-Wall : his Father, who was a Bricklayer, has been dead about 12 Years; but his Mother is still living. His Parents having got him when young into Broad-street School ; he had a pretty good Education, and was afterwards bound Apprentice to one Davis a Clogg-maker , in George's-Court in Holborn . He served his Master about 3 Years, but gave him the Slip between whiles; after which giving himself entirely to ill Company, he ran away from him altogether, and lay about Streets, and upon Stalls, for the Space of half a Year, and then went to live with a Woman who cried Fish. She helped him to a Place, by recommending him to Mr. Knowles, who follows Gambling: i e. Gaming or playing with Merry-go-rounds; Te-totums, and Tar-pauling Cloths, one of which is called a † Twirl-Cloth and the other a * Toggy-Cloth, at Tottenham Court and other Fairs; after they had done with Gambling, when the Fairs were over, he sold Poultry about Streets . Sometime after, he went from this Master, and betook himself to picking of Pockets. The first Time was in Moorfields , where he took ten Handkerchiefs, and got but 10 d. for them.

He continued this Trade of picking Pockets for sometime, and also went up and down a-Nights pushing Peoples Sash-windows up, and taking out what he could get: then he got acquainted with a Haunt for Thieves, at one Bagey's in Hartshorn-Court in Golden-Lane , out of which in about three Years Time, he said there were 9 Persons Executed, and near 20 Transported. He followed Thieving and taking Lead off Houses about 2 Years with Christopher Jordon and Cooks, who are executed; and was concerned with young Cowley and Charles Newton in the same Practices: When Vezey was an Evidence against Cowley and Newton, he was afraid he should have been put in the Information, but was innocent of that Fact.

Then he went into Rag Fair and got in Company with ‡ Christo Peterson , alias Jack the Sailor, and Wm Flemmar , alias Silver Heels: then he went a House-breaking with them; they broke open Mr. Denny's House, the Blackmoor' Head , or Indian Queen , within Aldgate , and got as many Things as the Gentleman valued at 12 l. but sold them for 2 Guineas and 14 s. After this, in Company with the above Persons, he broke open a Stocking shop, over-against a Wheel-wright's in St. John's street , and took 4 dozen and 9 Pair of Stockings, as also a Bag with 6 Shillings in Halfpence. Another Time they broke open a House at the Sign of the Hand and Slipper in White lyon-street Goodman's Fields , and got as many Shoes as filled a Sack. Then they broke open a Milliner's and Hosier's at the bottom of Red-lyon-street , in White-chapple , and took a vast Quantity of Handkerchiefs, which they sold for 3 l. and took 2 Pound of Coffee and other Things. Having spent this Money with as little Consideration as they got it. His Accomplices and he broke open a Stocking-shop by Alderman Parsons's Brew-house , and took out 4 or 5 dozen of Stockings, and a Purse with Half a Guinea and 6 or 7 Shillings in Silver; as they did also a House by the Victualling-Office , from whence they carried off about a dozen and a half of Stockings. They rifled also another Shop near Spittle Fields-Market , over against a pav'd Alley that goes to the Church, and took from thence a great Quantity of Gloves, Fans, Smelling Bottles and other Things, which they sold for about Thirty Shillings.

Some Time after this, they broke open a Stocking Shop and Glovers, over against Red-lion-street , Whitechapel , and carried off 22 pair of Clogs and 2 pair of Shoes. In doing this, the pulled the†

†A Twirl Cloth is a painted Cloth with Figures upon, which they play with an Iron that turns round.

* A Toggy Cloth is a printed Cloth upon which they thrw Changes with Dice.

‡ William Flemmar was convicted for Transportation in Sessions 142, and Christopher Peterson was capitally convicted and received Sentence of Death in September Sessions 1742 (the same Sessions in which he was convicted) for another Fact, but being recommended by the Jury, received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve.

Shutters quite down, and had stripped the Shop, if they had not been prevented by People's coming into Town to Market.

About 3 Months ago, Wm. Flemmar and himself, went into a Tavern in Exchange-Alley , about Ten o'Clock at Night, from whence Wm. Flemmar carried off a Quart Silver Tankard, and himself a 3 Pint Tankard, and sold them for Nine Guineas to Eliz. Barefoot , who lives in Rag-Fair , tho' the Gentleman valued them as he had been informed at 25 Guineas.

Another Time, he alone broke open a House in an Alley by Gray's Inn Walks , and took away five Handkerchiefs; he had like to have got a great Parcel that lay in the Window, but was prevented by a Watchman coming by which obliged him to make off. Again, Peterson and himself, broke open a House near Tower-hill , by the Victualling-Office, having pushed back the Shutters, and with a Hook pulled out a great Quantity of Linnen, however, they left a good deal hanging out of the Window in the Street, which they could not get off, but were obliged to run away, being discovered by a Watchman.

Another Time, Christopher Peterson and himself twice attempted to break open Mrs. Huntley's, a Linnen-draper's, in Leadenhall-street , the first Time, they pulled back the Shutter, broke a Pane of Glass, and felt in the Window, but there was nothing in it; whereupon Peterson and he quarrel'd, and did not see one another for a Week; then they attempted it again, and said that a certain Person lent him an Iron which he affirmed cost him 7 s. 6 d. it was like a Crow at one End, to wrench any thing or draw out Nails with, and like a Hammer at the other End, and it would break open any Lock or Fastening, with this Iron they broke the Window Shutter, but being disturbed, they were forced to leave their Instrument behind them, which would have been produced in Court, if Peterson had been tried for the Fact, he being then taken. He was very desirous that this might be made Public, for the Service of honest People, to prevent their being robb'd by others in the same Manner; the Method they take is, to push in this Iron between the Shutters, to shove or wrench them back, then putting in a Hand and breaking a Pane of Glass, they with a Brass or other Wire, with a Hook at the End, can draw any thing out, which lies near the Window, that are not very large, without taking down a Shutter; this, he said, was very much owing to the Carpenter's Faults in not making the Shutters to fix close with proper Irons, and not well securing the Groves.

Again, Jennings, Peterson and Flemmar, attempted to break open a Linnen-draper's Shop, the Corner of Crispin street , near Spittle-square , but were prevented by the Watchmen, and left the Instrument behind them, which was much like that left at Huntley's, and as he believes is in Spittle-fields Watch house now. Then they attemptted to break open a Stocking Shop by the Market, and had wrenched the Shutters open, but the Watchman hearing a Noise ran after them, and cried Stop Thief! upon which they fled away, and left their Bag i the Market, Peterson and himself going one way, and Flemmar another; in short, he said he might thank Peterson for his untimely End.

Some few Nights afterwards, they went out again with a full Resolution to get Money at all Events, having not a Penny left; accordingly they went into Woodstreet , by Spittle fields Market , but were again disturbed by the same Watchmen: Flemmar then went a robbing with Richard Studder (now Executed) and Martin, and Flemmar got into Clerkenwell-Bridewell , and then Jennings and Peterson not caring to go out by themselves, engaged John Squire to go along with them; the first Night they went out together, they broke open a House in Long-Alley , by Moorefields , and took from thence 4 or 5 Men's Coats, a Woman's green stuff Gown, 2 Handkerchiefs, 2 pair of Shoes, a gold Ring, 2 Silver Spoons, a pair of Buttons and a Girdle buckle, but as to the Plate Jennings sunk that himself, and sold the Ring to Eliz. Barefoot , for 1 s. less than it weighed. He had almost forgot one Robbery which he committed in Company with Peterson and Flemmar, which was breaking open a House in Wapping , where they got a silk Handkerchief, several pair of Stockings and a great deal of Gartering, which they sold to Eliz. Barefoot , for 27 s.

After the Loss of Peterson and Flemmar, he got Squire and Cooper to go along with him, and told them he had a Chance; * they went together*

A Chance is when we have a House in our Eye, where we have an Expectation of getting something; but if we say we have a dead Chance, then we are Sure we can do it.

to a House in a Street between Whitechappel and the Play House in Goodman's-Fields , they had a Rolling-Pin, with which Squire endeavour'd to push back the Shutters, but it would not answer the End of the Instrument they had lost; however Squire happening to have in his Bosom an old rusty Hanger that he brought from his Uncle's, said Cooper to him, I will knock your Head off if you will not let me have it; so at last with that they open'd the Shutters so as to draw some Stockings to the Window, cut the String of the Bundle, and pulled out as many Stockings as they sold for 29 s. to Eliz. Barefoot , the Gentleman he said was an Exciseman, and his Wife kept the Shop; he mentioned this because he heard other People were suspected and threaten'd to be taken up on this Account.

After this they disagreed, and he went out with one John Price , who follows the same Course still, and he said that that there are several others besides who are guilty of the same wicked Practices.

He added, that there was another Thing he thought it his Duty to mention, viz. to caution People to take Care of their Houses and Shops in an Evening, and not let any Thing lie near the Windows; and in the Day Time to keep their Door shut, and the Sashes of the Windows screw'd down, that they may not be pushed up on the outside, for he said they used to walk up and down in the Day Time to see what Doors were open, or what Windows they could get in at, which they call going upon the Day Sneak; if they get in and nobody is there, they take Plate or any Thing they can lay their Hands on and march off; if they happen to be seen, they ask for some Midwife, or Mantua-maker, or any other Person by any fictitious Name they can think off. If they get nothing below, they venture p Stairs, to see what they can light on there, and if they should happen to be met, they ask if such a one does not lodge there, naming the first Person that comes into their Heads as an Excuse.

There is another Thing he desired might be mentioned with Respect to the Carelessness of Servants, in leaving the Window Shutters, &c. open, or unpinned, as was the Case at a Grocers Shop in Lemon-street , Goodman's-fields , where they got in at a Cellar Window, which was left open, but being in the Dark, and not capable of finding their Way, they did not take any thing, but he said if they had had a Dark Lanthorn, they should have carried off all they could have come at, this was between 12 and 1, about 5 Months ago. He desired this likewise might be known by his Master, for which he was very sorry, and asked Pardon, tho' it was but a frivolous Thing, namely, that when he was an Apprentice he broke open the Shed belonging to his Master's Mother, and robbed her of two Gallons of Cherry Brandy, a Shirt, a pair of Children's Shoes, and 7 single Farthings, as also he took away the Leaden Pump out of the Yard, which he was inform'd has been charged upon other Persons.

He used likewise to rob People's Shops of Weights, and Pewter Pots, and stripped a Coach House at the Red-Lion in Long Lane of all the Lead, and sold it to one at the Black-Boy in Fleet-Lane , who encouraged him to bring any Thing whatever he got, and accordingly has bought several Gallon Pots of him which he had stolen, and persuaded him to go on in the same wicked Course, as he did all other Persons to do the same.

A Year ago he liv'd with one Barrow in Fleet-Lane for about a Month, and by that Means came acquainted with that Persons Way of dealing. As to the Robbery for which he died, he said he had no Intention of committing it, but meeting with Cooper and Squire, he went with them, tho' he declared as a dying Man, he did not know what they were going about, neither did he act in it, but stood by and had part of the Money: he own'd however that he was then going about Mischief himself, and with an Intent to thieve; he said Squire had a Rolling Pin, which the Gentleman they robbed took for a Pistol, and Cooper had a Cutlass.

He acknowledged that most of the Goods that they got in their Robberies were sold to Eliz. Barefoot , who is married to one Miller, who was Turnkey at New-Prison, and that they have encouraged him in his Wickedness more than any Body else.

He added, that being taken up one Night as a disorderly Person, this Miller stood his Friend, and told him he could get him off of any Thing. He said his Mother and his Father-in-law were very good to him, and gave him such Advice, which if he had taken, he had never come to this untimely End.

He seem'd free and genuine in his Confession, and declared he did it from a Sense of his Duty, to do Justice and make some Reparation to Mankind whom he had injured.

In short, he owned himself to have been a very wicked, wild Youth, and that he believed for the Time he had followed this Way of Life, he had done as much Mischief as any one Person whatever: adding, that he was very sorry for what he had done, asked God Pardon for all his Sins, and hoped for Forgiveness: He said, without the Mercy of God he was utterly undone; but that he did not despair of it. - In effect, he appeared to be a sincere penitent, and declared he would rather die than live.

Jennings said that Richard Studder 's House had been the Ruin of him, and desired all young Men to take Warning by him, and not to frequent Gin shops; especially those who entertain such young Fellows as himself.

Richard Studder kept a Sort of a Brandy and Gin-shop in Norman's-Court , near Rag-Fair , over-against Wellclose-Square .

He said George Anderson used to be a Sort of a Luggage Carrier for them, and that if there was any thing very heavy, though it was a hundred and an half weight, they used to order him to carry it.

When Mr. Huntley's House was attemted to be broke open, Jennings made his Escape, and Peterson was taken. The last Time they attempted it, Mr. Huntley was coming home about twelve o'Clock at Night, seeing them fumbling at the Shutters, passed them, cross'd the Way, and stood still: thereupon Jennings said to Peterson, come away Jack, he has * stagg'd us; to which Peterson answered. Damn you, what ails you, you have no Mind to get Money? Jennings then seeing Mr Huntley go to the Watch-house, cry'd, now don't you see he staggs us, and threw the Instrument into the Channel, and got off, and Peterson was taken upon the Spot.

He desires that no body would reflect on his Mother, because the World says she has given him Encouragement in his Wicked ways; though he declares she never did, but always gave him the best of Advice, which if he had follow'd, as he observed before, he had avoided this untimely and shameful End.

John Jennings omitted to mention that Peterson and himself attempted to break open a Pawnbroker's Shop in Shoreditch , near Spittle-Yard , where there were Silver Tankards, Cups and Watches hanging in the Window, there were folding Shutters to the Windows with Hinges; however Jennings getting upon the Rails, put his Hand o'er the Top of the Shutters, broke a Pane of Glass, the Shutters being a little open at Top, laid hold of some Watches in his Fingers, but could not get them out; he supposed the People were not in Bed, for hearing a Noise they came down Stairs, which obliged them to move off; nevertheless they design'd to attempted it again, but Peterson being taken soon after, they dropt it.

Jennings declares further, that the 2d of March was twelvemonths, Wm. Briers , alias Fat-faced Will, (who is transported) Christopher Peterson , and another, took a Portmanteau out of the Boot of a Coach, at the Bell-Inn in the Strand , in which were two Diamond Rings, one plain Gold Ring, and a great Quantity of Head-cloaths and other Linnen, very richly laced, and of great Value. He says the Wife of one of the Persons wears the Rings now.

The following Account Henry Hinton gave of himself.

HENRY Hinton 19 Years of Age, was born in St. George's in the East , his Father who was a Sailor, and his Mother are both dead; however, he had some Education at St. George's Charity School , where he continued about two Years: He gave his Mind only to playing Truant, and running away. He began his Villany pretty early, by cheating his Parents of Trifles; for which Reason, and their not being able to keep him under, his Mother put him Apprentice to a Buyer and Seller of old Rags, and broken Glass , when he was about twelve or thirteen Years of Age.

Whilst he continued there, when he bought Goods for his Master, he would frequently say there was less than there was; if there was an hundred and an half, he would swear there was but

* That is, he spies us.

an hundred, and so cheat the People he bought the Goods of, and put the Money in his own Pocket.

His Master falling sick and going to St. Bartholomew's-Hospital, he then ran away from him for about a Fortnight: However, when he come home, he took him again upon his Promise of Amendment, but neither did, nor could not refrain from bad Company.

Amongst other Thieves with whom he got acquainted, he was particularly great with Thomas Studder , Brother to Richard Studder , who suffered with him, and was concern'd with him and Anderson in this Robbery for which he dies. Their Way was, at first to get into People's Yards in the Day Time, to see what Things were there, in order to take them away at Night; but this Trade in a little Time not answering, by Reason People were more careful, and did not leave their Things abroad as before, but locked them up in their Sheds, they began to be more daring, and used to break open the Out-houses and Sheds, and they followed this Trade in Lime-house and Wapping a great while.

About 2 Years and a half ago he had a Mind to leave them, and accordingly went down to Portsmouth , and enter'd himself on Board his Majesty's Ship the Yarmouth, as Servant to the Gunner for a Year, which Time being expired, and his Master removed to another Ship, he not being willing to go with him, came to London , with an Intention, as he says, to lead a new Life. However that be, meeting with his old Companions, he renew'd his Acquaintance with them, and was easily persuaded again to follow his old Course of Life, which led him into more Wickedness than ever he had before been guilty of. By this Means he grew more harden'd, and then they used to go out a Nights into the Fields, stop whoever they met, and take what they had from them, and if they had nothing, they would sometimes strip them, which he own'd he thought no Sin at all.

The last Robbery Hinton committed was that for which he suffer'd, and he was very unwilling as he said, to have gone with them that Night, but was over persuaded to it by Thomas Studder , who said he wanted Money, and was resolved then to have some at all Hazards, assuring them he knew of a good Chance, and in Effect, he had determined to commit this Robbery some Time before he actually made the Attempt. Hinton desired that nobody would reflect upon his Sister, (who is the only Relation he had) for his untimely End, begged of God that he would change her Heart, and desired she also would reform her Life, especially to take Care not to prophane the Sabbath-Day, which he has been guilty of, and heartily repents of.

The following Letter having been found in Homan's Pocket, after he was cut down and stript, and brought to Us, after the Publication of the Account of his Behaviour, we thought it better to subjoin it here, than to omit it entirely.

My Dear!

THIS with my kind Love to you, and the Child, and my Brothers and Sisters, desiring you not to fret your self about me, for I am a going to my Home. I trust in God I have made my Peace with him, and am willing to depart this sinful World for a Place of Rest; and I hope you will put your Trust in God likewise; he will have Mercy upon you, if you turn and repent, for he has promist Forgiveness to all Men, if they will but turn.

From your loving Husband,

THOMAS HOMAN .

The following Speech was spoke at the Place of Execution, by JOHN JENNINGS .

GOOD PEOPLE.

" THE many notorious Offences I have committed against God and my Country, which " show me, tho' a young Man, to have been an " old Sinner; make it necessary for me, if I desire " my Repentance should be thought sincere, to testify my sincere Sorrow for the same; and warn " all Persons of my Age, to refrain from the same " Evil Courses; if they wou'd avoid the like untimely End, and not fill the Hearts of their " Parents, and Relations with Shame and Anguish.

" O! my dear Countrymen, did you know the " Pangs I now feel, you wou'd take Care " fall into the same Calamity, as I hope " being desirous of being the last

Noster-Row . 1742.

“ such an ignominious End. It wou'd indeed be a “ great Comfort to me, in my Dying Moments; “ could I have any Reason to believe my Sufferings “ wou'd be of Advantage to you, and I hope it “ will deter you from splitting upon the same Rock “ as I have done.

“ For the rest, I acknowledge the Justice of my “ Sentence, and am even Thankful to Heaven, for “ taking me off in this manner, because otherwise, “ in all probability, I should have persisted still in “ the same evil Courses, 'till I had dropt unawaken'd “ and Impenitent into the Devil's Arms, doom'd ever “ to remain with him in everlasting Flames. At “ present, thank God, the Case is not so, but I “ depart this Life with great hopes of Mercy from “ an all gracious God, thro' the Merits of a Dying “ Saviour, who is ready to receive all who truly “ turn unto him, even at the last Moment.

“ Good People, I have how but few Moments “ longer to live, during which I earnestly desire “ your fervent Prayers for my poor Soul; especially, “ in those bitter Agonies, when I shall be unable “ to Pray for myself. May Heaven Guard, and “ Direct you ALL, and may the Lord Jesus, in “ whose Merits alone I trust for my eternal Well-fare receive my sinful Soul. Amen.

ADVERTISEMENT.

PICTORAL TINCTURE.

Never before published (being the Benevolence of a Person of Quality) and at prime Cost for the Relief of the Poor.

THAT in Consideration of the daily Disturbance in Churches by continual Coughing, is recommended the original, inestimable Pectoral Tincture, being a speedy Cure for Coughs, Colds, Astma's, Consumptions, Phthisicks, Wheesings, difficult Breathings, Shortness of Breath, Hoarsness, and Rattling in the Pipes, caused by Colds.

It dissolves congealed Phlegm in the Thorax, heals Rwness and Soreness of the Lungs, Breast and Stomach; admirably opens their Obstructions, and causes easy Expectoration of those adhesive, thick, slimy Humours that often stuff and clog the perspiratory Passages, which in astmatick People causes so much Uneasiness; relaxes the Fibre, and thereby enlarges the Capacity of the Vessels, cures vehement Catarchs, Distilations of Rhumes, or Fluxes of Humours falling upon any of the noble Parts, and so gives immediate Relief in the severest Fit of Coughing; things the viscid Cohesions in the Vessels and fits them for Circulation, likewise the Hooping Cough; wonderfully comforts Nature in its most declining State, clears the Heart, revives the Spirits, and is a Cordial to the Stomach.

To be had at Mr. Wilkin's at the Mitre in Jewin street, near Aldersgate, at one Shilling the Bottle Retail; and at the same Place at nine Shillings a Dozen Wholesale: And for Conveniency sold Retail at Mr. Dodson's, at the seven Stars against the Pump within Aldgate; at Mr. Gepsilp's a Cuttler against the George Inn in the Borough, Southwark; at Mr. Fowcher's Snuff Shop, unper the Passage into Duke's Court near St. Martin's Church, Charing Cross.

Where is also to be had, the Original, Angelical Electuary, published for many Years with great Success, at one Shilling a Pot; and is more particularly proper in Catarrhs, Distillations of Rheums, Wheezings, husky and dry Coughs, Rattling in the Pipes, because it is to be dissolved in the Mouth, and by its aromatick Warmth dries up the Rheums that many Times distils plentifully from the Head upon the Larynx Aspera, or Wind-pipe, and is the Cause of frequent Coughing.

At the same Place is likewise sold, the Royal Anodyne British Tincture, or great Pain easiing Medicine, at one Shilling a Bottle.

This Medicine receives its Name from that admirable Faculty it hath in giving Relief in all Manner of Pains whatsoever, and is the most certain Cure for the Cholick and Disorders of the Bowels, expelling Wind Gripes, Pleurisy, Stitches, Pain of the Side, Back, Loins, Shoulders, or any other Part proceeding either from Cold external Violence, or Sharpness of Humours; not acting by Stupefaction, (as Opiats) but by a friendly Balsamick Quality, extracted from the Life of Plants and Minerals, causing all Pains to vanish as soon as warm in the Stomach.

FINIS.

