THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were executed at Tyburn, on Tuesday the 12th, of this Instant May, 1730.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir Richard Brocas , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice Raymond; the Hon. Mr. Justice Denton; the Hon. Mr. Baron Carter; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Raby; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery for the City of London, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being 8th, 9th, and 10th of April, 1730, in the third Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Nine Men, viz. Abraham Isarel , alias Jonas , John Tizzard , Thomas Paul , James Dalton , David Aubert , George Downing , Thomas Williams , jun . Hugh Horton , alias Norton , and William Shrimpton ; and one Woman, Margaret Walker , alias Walters , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were instructed in the first Principles of Religion, both in Publick and Private: Some of them having been grossly Ignorant, (partly for want of Education, and partly by Reason of their obstinate and unadviseable Tempers) whether in natural or revealed Maxims. From St. John, 1. 12. 13. But as many as received him, to them gave he Power to become the Sons of God; even to them that believe on his Name: which were born, not of Blood, nor of the Will of the Flesh, nor of the Will of Man, but of God. I took Occasion to shew them the absolute Necessity of believing in Christ, as the Son of God, the true Messias, and only Saviour of lost Man, since we, by Sin and our Apostacy from God, having lost all Power of satisfying divine Justice, it is Necessary for us to endeavour to attain to the imputed Righteousness of Christ Jesus, by a lively Faith in him, who by his Sufferings and Death hath made a perfect Attonement for the Sins of all Men. I shew'd them, that their attacking, beating, frightning and robbing upon the Highway, was a Sin bordering upon Murder, which they will also commit, when they think upon being discover'd and brought to Justice by the injur'd Party; and therefore those who were guilty of Robbery, ought to repent as if they had committed Murder. I instructed them in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, that they being Pledges of the divine Love, and Seals of the new Covenant; the worthy and faithful Receivers are made Partakers of the invisible Grace signify'd thereby, Pardon of their Sins and eternal Life. As from several other Texts, so particularly from Rev. 14. 13. Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord; yea, saith the Spirit, from henceforth, that they may rest from their Labours and their Works do follow them. I used several Exhortations to prepare them for their great Change; since upon the Conclusion of their Life by Death, depended their eternal Welfare or Misery in the other World.

Abraham Israel , alias Jonas , was an obstinate and irreclaimable Jew: I endeavour'd to perswade him to believe in Christ as the only Saviour of Sinners, by shewing that Jesus of Nazareth was the true Messias, as being the only Person, in whom all the Prophecies of the old Testament concerning the Messias were fulfill'd, in respect he was the Seed of the Woman, who bruis'd the Head of the Serpent, i. e. who destroy'd the Kingdom of Satan, as was evident at the Time of our Saviour's Appearance, for then the Heathen Oracles ceas'd, and Christ was declar'd to be the Son of God with Power by his Resurrection from the Dead, and by many other infallible Miracles, the greatest of all which was, that by the means of twelve illiterate Fishermen, in a very short Compass of Time, without any external Violence or Force, a great Part of the World, in the most remote and farthest distant Regions, were converted to the Faith of Jesus, and willingly submited their Necks to the Yoke of Christ and own'd his Cross. But whatever could be said on this Subject, he appear'd still Inflexible, and gave a general Answer, that he would acknowledge none of these things, and that there had been abundance of wise Men of their Nation, who represented the Scripture in another View.

When these and other Exhortations were given, they attended in Chapel and made regular Responses, as they could; they were in a better State of Health, than commonly such miserable Objects use to be, when they are kept so long under Sentence; only Horton and the Woman were a little indispos'd, but recover'd very soon, and fail'd not in giving their usual Attendance. Dalton was very observant in attending Chapel, and comply'd with Prayers, and was more attentive to Exhortations, then Men use to be in his unhappy Condition; only once, the Woman under Sentence having given him some sharp Words, upon his stopping her at the Door of the Cells, as she intended (as he alledg'd) to make her Escape, which (I believe) was impracticable; he was a little uneasy to her in Chapel, and threatn'd to cut off her Head, or beat her unmercifully if she spoke to him again on that Subject. He said, he knew nothing of her Intention to make an Escape in her Hood and Mantle, or else he would not have stopp'd her. I advis'd him to be Patient, that he would forbear such desperate Resolutions, and consider his present Circumstances: He said, he would not be displeas'd at his being blam'd for what he did, but could not endure to bear the Blame of what he had not done; but as for what he said to the Woman, that it was only for Terror, not that he design'd to do any such thing.

Abraham the Jew came mostly to Chapel, but more for a little Freedom, than any love he had to the Devotion; appearing altogether indifferent that way, only sometimes he look'd a little on his Hebrew Psalter, and on Ascension day he sung aloud the one half of the

24th Psalm, and the last part of the Doxology, for I observ'd that he did not sing the first part of it, along with the rest. I endeavour'd to persuade him to the belief of Christianity; but, although he had little or nothing to say, he persisted inflexible. Thomas Paul behav'd very quietly and gravely in Chapel; as did Margaret Walker , who sometimes wept. David Aubert , and Hugh Norton were always very civil and grave and apparently Devout, and they with George Downing made regular Responses. William Shrimpton had been much afflicted with Sickness before Sentence, but he recover'd pretty well, attended in Chapel and behav'd calmly and devoutly.

Upon Friday, the 8th of May, the Report of the above ten Malefactors was made to his Majesty in Council; when John Tizzard , of St. Leonards Shoreditch for feloniously taking 8 yards of Cloth, value 40 s. the Goods of John How , from the Tenters, between the Hours of 11 and 12 at Night, the 15th of November last; Thomas Paul , of St. George in the East , for Burglariously breaking the House of Thomas Littlewood , in the Night-time, and stealing a Cloth Coat, value 15 s. the Property of John Thong , and a Cloth Coat, value 5 s. the Property of William Wiseman , the 15th of February, last, Margaret Walter , alias Walters , of St. Martin's in the Fields , for privately stealing Twenty one Yards of Linnen Cloth, value 20 s. in the Shop of Henry Warcopp , the 16th of March last; George Downing , of St. Martin's in the Fields , for feloniously stealing a Tin Box, value 1 d. two Gold Thimbles, value 26 s. ten Gold Rings, value 3 l. an Emerald Ring, value 4 l. a Gold Chain, value 8 l. two pieces of Rock Gold, value 7 l. and 10 Guineas, the Property of Thomas Wilson , in the Dwelling-house of Sarah Sutcliff , the 29th Day of January last. and William Shrimpton of St. Dunstan's Stepney , for assaulting Richard Pridgeon , in a Field, or open Place, near the High-way, putting him in fear of his Life, the 13th of January last, and taking from him a Fustian Frock, value 20 s. a pair of Breeches, value 14 s. a Silver Tobacco-stopper, a Waistcoat, an Apron, ten Keys, Half a Guinea and 9 s. 6 d. in Money. As also for a Robbery in an open Field, near the King's Highway, upon Edward Powney , and taking from him his Goods, value 4 s. and 4 s. 6 d. in Money; received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining Five, viz. Abraham Israel alias Jonas , James Dalton , David Aubert , Thomas Williamson , jun . and Hugh Horton , alias Norton were order'd for Execution.

Hugh Horton , alias Norton , of St. Margaret's Westminster , was indicted for assaulting Stephen Croucher , in the King's Highway, putting him in fear of his Life and taking from him a Sorrel Gelding, of the Price of 5 l. the Property of Thomas Austwick , a Mail, value 4 l. and 50 Leather Bags, value 5 l. the Property of our Sovereign Lord the King, the 1st of March last.

Stephen Croucher depos'd, that as he was going with the Bristol and Gloucester Mail, on the 1st of March, about 4 o'Clock in the Morning, and being near Knights-bridge , a Man about the Prisoners Size and who spoke like him came out of the Gate-way, and bid him stand; that he led the Horse to the farther side of a Field, commanded him to show him the Bristol-Bag, which he took and went off with the Horse and all, leaving him bound, his Hands behind his Back, and threatning to kill him, if he made the least Noise. Daniel Burton , depos'd, that the Prisoner often advis'd him to go along and rob the Bristol Mail; and at other Times, to rob their Land-lady, Mistress Marlow, which when Mr. Marlow knew, he turn'd him away. William Marlow depos'd That on Monday Morning the 2d of March, the Prisoner paid him 5 l. which he ow'd him, out of a 20 l. Bank Note, which he chang'd at Mr. Broadhead the Brewers. This Evidence said, he could not remember of Burton's informing him of the Prisoners intending to rob his Wife or the Bristol Mail; but as to his Character, that he and one Mason had been turn'd out of the Guards for some Misdemeanor. Henry Bingley Clerk to Mr. Broadhead depos'd, that he had paid the Note to one Mr. King, a Factor; he to Mr. Victorine's Man in Thames-street, and he again to Mess. Knight and Jackson's Man, who produc'd the Note and read it thus, to Henry Collet , or Order, 20 l. for the Governor and Company of the Bank, and indorsed, not to be paid till the 5th of March. William Burleigh depos'd, that he found in the Prisoners Breeches a Pocket Book, which he said he found in Covent-Garden, with the Notes in it. This confirm'd by another Witness. Mr. Langley Turnkey of Newgate depos'd, that when he was brought to Newgate , he search'd the Prisoner, and found upon him 3 Bank Notes, and five 50 l. Notes of Mr. Hoar's, which he deliver'd to Mr. Archer. This confirm'd by Mr. Archer, Several Witnesses depos'd, that all those Notes were sent to Bath or Bristol, on Saturday, the 28th of February, with the Bristol Mail. Others depos'd, that they believ'd some slips of Leather found in Mr. Horton's Lodgings belong'd to the Mail. The Prisoner deny'd the Fact, and said he believ'd it was a Trap laid for him, and he exclaim'd much against Burton. Two Women depos'd, that he was not out of his Lodgings the Night the Robbery was committed. The Jury not believing them, upon mature Deliberation brought him in Guilty. Death.

Hugh Horton , alias Norton , but (as he said) his true Name was Houghton , about 48 Years of Age, born in Lancashire of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, and instructed him in religious Principles. When of Age, he serv'd his Time to a Wine Cooper , and behav'd himself Honestly; was naturally of a civil Disposition, and for some Time follow'd his Business and was encourg'd by his Friends and Acquaintance; but in Queen Ann's Time he was press'd on board of a Man of War, where he serv'd Carefully, and to the liking of his Officers, in the Station of a Midshipman , and sometimes as of Gunners Mate ; and when the Ship was discharg'd, he got a Title to 5 l. per Ann. out of the Pensioners Chest at Chatham, to which he had a right at his Death. He married a Wife in London , and kept House at the other End of the Town for some Years, and at that Time serv'd in a Troop of Guards , till of late, about 10 or 11 Months ago, some Cloaths of considerable Value were lost, and they suspected Houghton to be the Thief, and this being a dishonourable Action, unbecoming a Soldier , and one in that Station in which he then was, he was put out of the Troop; and after that, being put to his shifts and out of all Business, wanting Money, and not knowing what to do, it may be presum'd, that he thought upon some unlawful Means, as the readiest Way to provide himself with Money. He absolutely deny'd, that he committed this Fact, and said that another Man had since that Time acknowledg'd himself the doer of it. He said, that he had always liv'd Soberly, that he was a good Husband, a loving Parent, and provided carefully for his Family; that he went to Church and sometimes receiv'd the Sacrament. He serv'd the Government 12 Years by Sea, and 12 Years

by Land, with Approbation and Respect, till at last that Suspicion of his committing a scandalous Action broke out upon him.

The Account he gave of the Crime for which he died was to this Purpose: On Sunday, the 1st of March, as he was crossing Covent Garden , about 6 or 7 at Night, he found a Bundle of Papers, which he took up, and looking into them, they were a Parcel of Papers belonging to the Bristol Mail: He soon came to understand that the same Mail was robb'd on Sunday Morning, and then he having diligently perus'd the papers, kept some which he thought properest for his Purpose, and he being out of all manner of Business, and in great Want, and a great Reward promis'd to the Discoverer of the said Robbery, he durst not go to the Post Office, having already dispos'd of a 20 l. Bank Note, out of which he paid 5 l. that was owing to his Landlord, Mr. Marlow: And therefore he inclos'd in a Sheet of Paper the rest of the Papers thus found, directed them to the Post Master General, laid them down in Lincoln's-Inn Bog-House , and they were carried to the Post Office. He reflected much upon the Evidence against him, alledg'd that he often advis'd him to Adventure upon no purchase, no pay, and particularly to rob the Bristol Mail, which would make their Fortune at once, but that he always had the Grace to resist his wicked Proposals. This was the Substance of Mr. Burton's Evidence against him reversed. He pretended to disprove the Evidence, but in this he fail'd, and particularly in alledging that the Officers and others of the Life-Guard would appear in his Favour, for not one of them was to be seen in Court but one Gentleman, whom he call'd against his Will, and who did him more harm than good, for he declar'd that he serv'd in the Troop of Guards with him, but as to his Character he knew nothing of it, save that he was put out of the Troop upon Suspicion of Theft. He reflected upon his being convicted upon Circumstances, without positive Proof. I told him that it was altogether improbable, that any Person who had hazarded his Life in such a wicked and dangerous Attempt, as attacking, binding and threatening to murder the Post-Boy, and carrying away the Bristol Mail, and then laying it down any where for another to reap the profit, he said that they had laid a Trap for him, but could not positively say, that the Witnesses bore him any Ill-will, only he mention'd the great Reward laid upon his Head. I Represented to him the Necessity of a Free Confession from many Topicks, as the command of God, Scripture Precept and Example; and the Expediency of it, as being commonly the only Satisfaction can be given to the injur'd Party: &c. he appear'd to be a Man of a sullen reserv'd Temper, and after all could be said would give no further Account of that Affair. He seem'd always to be very Devout and Serious, declar'd that he believ'd in Christ Jesus, as the Son of God and only Saviour of Sinners, through whose Merits he hop'd for Salvation; that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind, and an unworthy Member of the Church of England.

James Dalton , of Pancras , was indicted for assaulting John Waller , in a certain Field, or open Place, near the Highway, putting him in fear of his Life, and taking from him 25 Handkerchiefs, value 4 l. five Ducats, value 48 s. a three Guilder Piece, two Guineas a French Pistole, and 5 s. in Silver, the 22d of November last.

The Prosecutor depos'd, that he being a Holland-Trader , the Prisoner met with him, as he was drinking at the Adam and Eve in Pancras , in his Return from Hampstead , where he had sold some Goods and receiv'd a little Money, that he desir'd to walk in his Company to Town; that it being Dark, he put out the Link, knock'd him down, wounded and beat him unmercifully, and then robb'd him of the Goods and Money mention'd in the Indictment, and threatn'd to blow out his Brains, if he made any Noise. He swore also to the same Pistol, with which Dalton had attack'd Dr. Mead in his Chariot, near Hatton Garden , as was found by the Description he gave of it when produc'd in Court. The Prisoner denied the Fact charg'd upon him, exclaiming against the Prosecutor as a common Affidavit Man, and of a Life and Character no better then himself, and then call'd for three Witnesses, Charles North , Edward Bromfield , and John Mitchel , whom the Court order'd to come out of Newgate . The last was not allow'd to depose, but the two first swore, that Dalton never wore a Gingham Waistcoat while he was in Newgate , contrary to what the Prosecutor affirm'd, and that he said to Dalton, when he came to visit him in Newgate, that he never wrong'd him of a Farthing in his Life. The Prosecutor having positively sworn the Fact upon him, and his Evidences being Persons of no Character or Reputation, the Jury found him Guilty. Death.

James Dalton , as he said, about 30 Years of Age, of Parents, who had a very indifferent Character, for his Father was an Irishman, and a Taylor in Dublin, whence he went to the Wars in Flanders, and was advanced to be a Serjeant; he afterwards came to London, liv'd here for some Time, by gaming and biting, till some Years ago one swore a Robbery upon him, for which he was executed. His Mother, after the Death of his Father, marry'd a Butcher, and was some Time since transported for some felonious Fact, and she now lives in some of these foreign Places, where she may have Leisure to lament the Fate of herself and her deserving Family; for they say that a Sister of his is likewise transported. Dalton being the Son of such a notable Family, one may easily conjecture what Sort of a Tree grows from such a Stock. However, while his Parents liv'd in any Credit, they put their Son James to School, where he was so unruly, that his Master put him out of School; he went to two other Schools, in the last of which he rob'd the Maid, but was immediately found out, which prevented his doing any further Mischief there: Dalton was a Thief from his Cradle, and imbib'd the Principles of Art from his Mothers Milk. He went between his Father's Legs in the Cart, to his fatal Exit at Tyburn; and it seems he intended to outvie him in Wickedness, for he said his Father was not a down-right Thief, but one of the most notorious Cheats at Cards of any Man in Europe, which Talent if he had improved as some others have done, and had not met with some Sharpers, who did not think upon being choused out of their Money at such an easy Rate, possibly he might have been still living: But James who was both Heir of his Fortune and good Qualities, took himself directly to all Manner of Theft and Robbery, and as he himself said was one of the most impudent irreclaimable Thieves that ever was in England.

He took ten Guineas from a certain Person in Town to swear falsly against one Nichols, who was executed with the Street Robbers upon Neaves's Evidence, but said that his Conscience check'd him for engaging to do such an unjust Action, and he would neither return the Money nor appear as Evidence against him; he begg'd God Pardon for undertaking so villainous a Design.

He behav'd always Civily in Chapel and at other Times, for what I know, except in one single Instance before-mention'd. He profess'd himself Penitent, that he believ'd in Christ, and died in Peace with all the World. As for the Crime for which he suffer'd, he absolutely deny'd it, and after all the Arguments could be used, he would not alter in his Confession; but reflected on his Prosecutor as one no less Wicked than himself: However, he freely forgave him; and often own'd to me, that for twenty Years past he never rose out of his Bed, but he deserv'd the Gallows. His Carriage was much more Modest and Civil, than that of several of those notorious Offenders useth to be.

Abraham Israel , alias Jonas , of St. Peter's Poor , was indicted for feloniously stealing eight Silver Spoons, five Silver Forks, two Silver Canisters, one Diamond Ring, value 250 l. a pair of Diamond Ear-rings, value 90 l. three Diamond Buckles, and other Goods, in the Dwelling-house of John Mendez de Costa .

Abraham Israel , alias Jonas , 22 Years of Age, born at Presburg , in Hungary , of Jewish Parents, who, he said, gave him Education in their Way, and design'd him for a Rabbi. They sent him to a Jewish School or College, at Prague , in Bohemia , and after he had been there for some Time, he left it without Consent of his Father and came to England, where he serv'd some of the topping Jewish Families, in Station of Jewish Butcher or Cook . He own'd that they were very Kind to him, and that he got Abundance of Money, and that it was nothing but a Temptation of the D - l prompted him to rob his Master. He said that he had liv'd up to the Rules of his Religion in many Respects, although he had been guilty of several Failings. He said his Father was a very rich Man at Presburg, and that he had good Relations of his own Nation there. He reflected on his Master, and show'd a Letter he had writ to him in Hebrew, full of bitter Reflexions, and that he apply'd some Imprecations to him out of the 109th Psalm. He had more Knowledge of the Hebrew Language than many of the Jews have, and writ the Characters very well. He had wild extravagant Notions about the Messias, as that he was to come down from Heaven at the End of the World, and to make all Men happy of what Sect or Profession soever they were. He knew little or nothing of the Scripture, only he read the Psalter, and some Jewish Prayer-books, and had some confus'd Notions of the rabbinical Legends and Romances, no way founded on Scripture. He did not believe that the Messias was to be the Son of God in an extraordinary Manner, and when I urg'd him with that Text, Jehova Tzidkenu, the Lord our Righteousness Jer. 23. 6. He knew nothing of it, and could answer nothing to any Argument proving Jesus Christ to be the true Messias, only he was ready to tell some out-of-the-way jewish Fable. He own'd the Justice of his Sentence, according to Law, and died an obstinate Jewish Infidel.

N. B. There being such a Variety of uncommon Facts, in the Life of the two before-mention'd Malefactors, viz. Dalton and Abraham Israel , the Jew; but being confin'd to so small a Compass, and unwilling to put our Readers to a greater Charge, we must refer them to Applebee's Weekly Journal, of Saturday next, where they may depend on an impartial Account.

Thomas Williamson , 16 Years of Age, born in the City of Chester , had little or no Education, only he said, a Gentlewoman put him to School a-while, where he learned to read a little. His Father, taught him his own Trade, which was a Shoe-maker . He confess'd that he was at committing the Robberies in the Indictments, but that it was James Nattris who broke the Houses and stole the Things, and that he was only Witness to it upon Nattris's Desire: He said also, that his Father knew nothing of the Goods being in his House. He was very Ignorant; I did what I could to instruct him, but he was slow of Understanding, and could not attain to much Knowledge. He wept and cried bitterly like a Child, when I spoke to him in Private. He repented of his Sins, believed in Christ, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

David Aubert , about 36 Years of Age, of honest Parents, within three of four Miles of the City of Bern in Swisserland , who gave him good Education at School, and instructed him in the Principles of Christianity. He was no particular Trade, but being good at the French Language he serv'd Gentlemen , and travell'd with them to France and other Foreign Places. He said, that he was obedient to his Parents, Trusty to his Masters (excepting this Instance) and observant of religious Duties. He purchas'd a small Estate in his own Country, with Money which he made in Service, to the value of 9 or 10 l. per Ann. He hath been in England for 6 or 7 Years past, at least coming and going, and had the Love of the Masters he serv'd. He hehav'd Modestly, Gravely and Devoutly in Chapel and upon all Occasions. He appeared to be of a mild agreeable Temper, and had a very honest Look. He acknowledg'd the Justice of his Sentence, but said that he never was a Thief before, nor of a vicious Life. He profess'd his Faith in Christ, his Penitence for Sin, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

At the Place of EXECUTION,

ABRAHAM the Jew, had some of his Nation speaking and reading a little to him in Hebrew; before I could get to pray for the rest. He said he had nothing more to say, only shew'd me a little Hebrew Prayer Book he was reading in. He seem'd to be very uncharitable to his Prosecutors when there was no Expectation of Life. I ask'd him if he freely forgave his Enemies? He hesitated upon this, and did not know if it was agreeable to their Religion, but answer'd faintly, he did. At another Time he prayed God might Reward them as they had dealt by him. Mr. Aubert had no more to say, only that he had given Satisfaction to one who had come to him several Days about an Affair. Thomas Williamson said he forgave all his Enemies. James Dalton said that Neaves had committed the Robbery by himself, which he swore against Nichols, and that he got money to swear falsely against Nichols, but that he would not do it. He deliver'd a Paper to one, which was the Scroll of a Letter reflecting on a Gentleman. They were serious at Prayers and singing Psalms, and when we had sung part of the 51 Psalm, Dalton desir'd some of the Humble Suit of a Sinner to be sung, which was done. They went off crying to God for Mercy.

When I came this Morning to Chapel, in order to recommend them to God as usual, before they die; they told me, that this Morning, Hugh Haughton had tied the Sword Belt which he wore about him to the Grate of the Cell-window, and his Handkerchief to the End of the Belt; and that he tied his Neck in the Handkerchief, and had his Hand at the Handkerchief putting it in order to Strangle himself. That by the Time they came to him, he was dead, although they had been with him about twenty Minutes before, when he was with apparent Devotion praying and singing Psalms. It is to be fear'd that he was a Hypocrite, and that little of what he said can be believed.

This all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE , Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENT.

This Day is publish'd

The Third Edition, with Additions, of A Practical Treatise: Or, Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the VENEREAL DISEASE. In three Parts, viz.

I. On the Simple Gonorrhea, Gleets, and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-Pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility.

II. On the Virulent Gonorrhoea, or Clap.

III. On the Venereal Lues or Grand Pox.

Wherein are plainly shew'd, the exact Degrees of Difference; with their Signs, Symtoms, Prognosticks and Cures in all Cases; their Beginnings, Progress, and fatal Periods, when neglected, or unskillfully managed; and how their absolute Cure, without Violence, or Injury, is completed. With proper and effectual Remedies, in their several Stages, prescrib'd and recommended therein. With some Remarks on that preposterous Way of Venery with Machines, &c. a plain Discovery of the Dangers (tho' little expected) which attend that vile Practice. Also many other useful Discoveries relating to Infections in both Sexes, not before taken Notice of.

To which is annex'd, A Vindication of the Practice of Salivating, &c. The whole fitted, as well for the Advantage of Patients, as young Practitioners.

By JOSEPH CAM , M. D .

Printed for the Author, and sold by him at his House at the Ball and Lamp in Bow Church-yard , Cheapside ; also by G. Strahan in Cornhill; W. Mears without Temple-Bar; C. King in Westminster Hall; E Midwinter on London-bridge; As also by Mr. Robert Nichols in Worcester ; R. Room and S. Farley in Bristol, and T. Goodall in Cambridge. Price 2 s.

London : Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Black-Fryers .

