THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, & Dying Words Of the NINE MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Wednesday the 26th of APRIL 1749.

BEING THE Third EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble Sir William Calvert , Knt . LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER III. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.XLIX.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right honourable Sir WILLIAM CALVERT , Knight , Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Baron CLARKE, Mr. Justice WRIGHT, Mr. Justice BIRCH, RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and other of his Majesty's Justices of OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City of London; and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 22d, Thursday the 23d, Friday the 24th, Saturday the 25th, and Monday the 27th of February, in the 22d Year of his Majesty's Reign; NICHOLAS MOONEY , was capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly. And,

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir WILLIAM CALVERT , Knight , Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Sir THOMAS ABNEY , the Honourable Baron CLARKE, RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and other of his Majesty's Justices of OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City of London, and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 5th, Thursday the 6th, Friday the 7th, and Saturday the 8th of April, in the 22d Year of his Majesty's Reign; DOMINIC WHITE , WILLIAM HORNER , JOHN MUDGET , DAVID DAVIS , THOMAS KINGSMILL , WILLIAM FAIRALL , RICHARD PERRIN , RICHARD GLOVER , JOSEPH WALTERS , WILLIAM MCLAUGHLIN , and ANNE VAINE were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

JOHN MUDGET , the Gingerbread-baker from Cheshunt , convicted for robbing

the Chelsea Stage Coach, having received Sentence Saturday the 8th. died Sunday Evening the 9th Inst.

The Behaviour of most of the rest since Conviction has been very decent and suitable to their unhappy Condition; their Attendance was every Day at divine Service in the Chapel, and their Appearance very devout, only Horner being sick most of the Time was obliged to absent, and McLaughlin and White being Roman Catholicks , were sullen, and would not attend.

On Thursday the 20th Inst. the Report of eleven Malefactors was made to his Majesty, when he was pleased to order the 9 following for Execution; viz. Dominic White , William Horner , David Davis , Thomas Kingsmill , William Fairall , Richard Perrin , Joseph Walters , Wm McLaughlin and Anne Vaine .

Nicholas Mooney , upon Account of some favourable Circumstances, which were laid before his Majesty, when a Report was made the 9th Day of March last, was respited till the 20th Inst. and on the 19th in the Evening a farther Respite of 7 Days, was sent to the Sheriffs from the Duke of Bedford's Office, one of the principal Secretaries of State; but being again reported with the rest, Execution was directed to be respited, till his Majesty's Pleasure concerning him, should be further known . His Majesty's Pleasure was, at the same Time signified, commanding that Execution upon Richard Glover , should also be respited, in Consideration of many favourable Circumstances appearing in his Favour .

1. DOMINIC WHITE , and WILLIAM HORNER , late of St. George's Middlesex , were indicted for breaking, and entering the dwelling House of John Rogers , with an Intent to steal , March 16.

2. WILLIAM MCLAUGHLIN , was indicted for robbing Benjamin Tribe on the King's Highway, of one Silver Watch, Value 10 s. One Pair of Silver Shoe Buckles, Value 5 s. One Guinea, in Gold, and 16 s. in Silver, March 29 .

3. THOMAS KINGSMIL , alias STAYMAKER , WILLIAM FAIRALL , alias SHEPPARD , and RICHARD PERRIN alias PAIN , alias CARPENTER were indicted for being concerned with others, to the Number of 30 Persons, in breaking open the King's Custom House at Pool , and stealing out there 30 hundred Weight of Tea, Value 500 l. and upwards , Oct. 7, 1747.

4. JOSEPH WALTERS was indicted for stealing one Silver Watch, Value 40 s. a Brazil Snuff Box made with a silver Hinge, Value 1 s. one half Guinea, and 2 s. 6 d. in Silver , the Goods of William Bailey , March 9.

He was indicted again for returning from Transportation .

5. DAVID DAVIS was indicted for robbing Bartholomew Fleming on the King's Highway, of a Silver Watch, Value 4 l. one Pair of Shoe Buckles, Value 5 s. and 5 d. in Money , March 3.

6. ANNE VAINE late of London Spinster , was indicted for being concerned with two Men, not yet taken, in robbing Martha Perry on the King's high Road of one scarlet Cloak, Value 4 s. one silver

Thimble, Value 6 d. and 11 s. in Money .

1 Dominick White , aged 28, born at New-Market near Limeric in the Kingdom of Ireland , was bound Apprentice to a Butcher in Limeric , whom he served about four Years and a half, but thinking to do better at Sea , he took the Opportunity of entering himself on Board the Ship of War called the Lime , then cruising on the Irish Coasts. He was on board this Ship about six Months, and was turned over to the Cambridge Man of War , which was then order'd for the Mediterranean, and on Board her, the Buchingham and the Dunkirk he has spent his Time, which is about nine Years from the Time of his going to Sea to last May, when he was discharged from the Dunkirk. He says he has worked since at Times in Rope-walks at Deptford , and other Places; but in general has led a loose and idle Life, Pilfering, and Stealing, whatever he could lay his Hands on. He was of a morose Disposition, and would scarce suffer himself to be talked to: He at first said, he was bred a Protestant, but afterwards was determined to die a Roman Catholick , and the only Reason he would give for so doing was, because he had often been to hear Mass in Ireland . As to the Fact for which he was convicted, he said he neither did, nor thought of any Harm, tho' he had a Pistol in his Hand charged with a large Slug, and about 20 Shot which he held right against the Persons who went down into the Cellar to take him; that Horner broke open the Cellar Window, and went down; and not coming up after he had called to him several Times, he went himself down to fetch him up. I leave it to the Reader, whether a Man could mean any Harm, who had the above Pistol, and a Bottle with Gunpowder; besides a Sword or Tuck, and a Piece of Iron, an Instrument made use of to splice Ropes with, with which 'tis very probable the Door was wrench'd open. Thus accoutered, and found in a Cellar, broke open, his Intentions could not be very harmless; and nothing to be sure, but being seasonably detected prevented his carrying his evil Designs in Execution. He was armed for doing great Mischief, and seem'd to have a Will fit for such Enterprizes.

2. William Horner , aged 21, born near St. John's Church in the Borough of Southwark , was put Apprentice to a Carman ; and says, being a wicked idle Boy, and getting into bad Company has brought him to this miserable and unhappy End thus early. He has been so ill, almost ever since he received Sentence of Death, as to be in great Measure deprived of his Senses; so that I could but just bring him to a Sense of this Offence, and that he should repent of all evil Courses, before it pleased God so to afflict him. He owned he broke the Cellar; said he was sorry for it, and hoped God would have Mercy on his Soul,

3. David Davis , aged 21, was born in Dublin , and bound Apprentice when very young to a Carpenter , a Man of great Note in the City of Dublin. He served the greatest Part of his Time very faithfully; his Master dying, he continued in the same Manner with the Widow, 'till the seven Years were expired. During which Time his Master having a Job in the Repair of St. Andrew's Church in Dublin , for Conveniency got the Liberty of another Carpenter's Yard

contiguous to the Church, where one George Raftor alias Raffody , whom he looks upon to have been the Cause of his Ruin, and present unhappy Circumstances, was used to resort, being of the same Business. Here they first contracted their Acquaintance; and Davis solemnly declares, had it not been for Raffody, he never should have thought of doing such a wicked Thing as what he is now to suffer for, and even that he thought not of five Minutes before he committed the Robbery. Upon his coming to London about 16 Months past he says, he met with Raffody again, and ever since, they have kept up a slender Acquaintance to the Time this Fact was committed, seeing each other now and then. For Davis got into Business and continued to work, and do Jobs for one or other Home to the Time he was taken. He knew Raffody was guilty of wicked Practices, and advised him, often against it, but unluckily for him Raffody came to his Lodgings the Afternoon the Fact was committed, and they having drank together more, he says, than he was accustomed to do, they went out to take a Walk, Davis not thinking of any Harm; he was pretty much in Liquor, he says, and as they went along, Raffody took the Advantage of it, and began to talk to him about Thieving, said there was a good deal to be got that Way, and he had a good Mind to try his Luck that Way. Davis says, he did not give much heed to what he said at that Time; they talk'd again of indifferent Matters, but Raffody would not drop this Subject, and said to Davis, you foolish Dog what signifies your slaving every Day for a Trifle, when if you'll be ruled by me, you shall live easy and well, without hard Labour. Davis says, he replied, that he loved Work better than Play, and if any one was of a contrary Opinion, they might follow their own Inclination; 'twas nothing to him, and he hoped to get his Livelihood by his Work; tho' by Means of evil Communication he finds himself mistaken.

They kept together that Day and Evening, and drank at several Places in their Walk, so that Davis says, he was pretty much in Liquor, and his evil Counsellor prevailed; being off his Guard, he forgot his former Use of going to his Lodgings in very good Time, so they kept walking the Streets till they met with Mr. Fleming. As he came towards them, come says Raffody to Davis, we'll set upon this Fellow and rob him, we two shall be a Match for him. Accordingly Raffody attacks Mr. Fleming, and tho' Davis had passed him (being somewhat diffident of what he was going about) he returned to the Assistance of his now Brother in Iniquity. He owns the taking of the Watch and Shoe Buckles, but says if there was any Money in the Case, it must have been taken by the other, for he does not remember to have seen or handled any at that Time. No sooner had they committed the Robbery, but a Gentleman coming by that Instant, and saying, what are you at that Sport? then have at you. They were frighted and ran for it in Hopes to make their Escape. Raffody had the good Luck to get off thro' Eagle Court , but Davis in running stumbled and fell, and was immediately taken by the Gentleman that luckily came to the Assistance of the Prosecutor. The Watch being called, came to them, being near

the Watch-house of the New Church in the Strand , to whom they delivered the Prisoner: He was taken care of that Night, and next Morning being taken before a Justice, he found Reason sufficient to commit him to Newgate .

He seems to be a Youth of a gentle Disposition, and behaved extremely well ever since Conviction, constantly attending and joining very devoutly in Prayer. He wished several Times he had never seen Raffody, and said, he had been the Death of his whole Family; for his Mother coming to Town from White-haven, went to see him, and he says, she told him she should not survive it long, and appeared to be very greatly afflicted; and that his Father upon hearing the sad and melancholy News of his Son's unhappy Case, was so surprized, that a Fit of Sickness immediately seiz'd him, which threw him into a violent Fever, and made him go mad. But he says, he is heartily sorry for what he has done, tho' this is the first Time he ever even thought to commit a Robbery, and it was not five Minutes before 'twas done. He freely forgives his Prosecutor, and all the World, and shall meet his Fate with Resignation to the Will of God, hoping Forgiveness of his Sins, thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ.

4. Joseph Walters , aged 38, was born in the Parish of St. Sepulchre , and was bound Apprentice to a Printer , with whom he lived about five Years, and then, not liking to be confined to that Business, but fond of a more loose Way of living, agreeable to his wandering Disposition, he went and took a Lodging at a Whipmaker's in Gray's-Inn-Lane . For seven Years after, he says, he sold Whips about the Streets , and used to go to Fairs in and about Town, to sell Whips, and Pens, and Paper, &c. Afterwards he went to lodge in Purple-Lane , where he got acquainted with some bad People, who persuaded him to make one among them; and one Evening in April, 1746, being a Night of public Rejoicing, he and his Companions had a Mind to make merry; but being themselves low in Pocket, it was to be at somebody's Expence that belonged not to their Company. They wanted to have a nice Supper, but how to come at it they could not very well tell: However, it was agreed on at last that Walters and one or two more should go upon the hunt, which they accordingly did, and Walters stole a Couple of Fowls out of a Poulterer's Shop, for which he was apprehended, and tried at the Old Bailey , and received Sentence of Transportation.

Agreeable to his Sentence, he was taken from Newgate , and conducted, with several others, down to Black Friars , in order to be put on board a Lighter provided for the Purpose of receiving them; but Walters found Means to escape, he says, with the Connivance of some of the People that belonged to the Lighter. However, he avoided for that Time the Punishment of the Law, and, as soon as he could, took himself away to Bristol , where he lived about a Year or two, selling Pens and Pocket-Books , &c. At length it was taken Notice of, that he being no Freeman, encroached upon the Liberty of the Citizens, and he was by the Magistracy ordered to forbear: Upon which he came again up to London , and returned to his old Practices of Thievery, and several little Pick-pocket Articles,he says, he has been guilty of. He owns the Fact for which he was convicted, and says, he deserves his Fate very richly, for so ill treating a Person to whom he pretended Friendship. They having been in Company together as Friends, Walters took the Advantage of his being in Liquor, and stole his Watch, a Brazil Snuff-Box, made with a Silver Hinge, one half Guinea, and two Shillings and Six-pence in Silver; for which he was tried and found guilty, at the last Sessions at the Old Bailey . And besides, a Bill of Indictment being preferred against him for returning from Transportation, and being seen at large in these Kingdoms before the Term of seven Years was expired; it was found by the Grand Jury. In Consequence of which, he was tried upon this Indictment, and the Record of his Sentence being proved, as also that he was the same Person, he was found guilty of Death, without Benefit of Clergy.

He acknowledged himself to have been a very vile and profligate Sinner, and owned particularly that monstrous Iniquity of Sodomitical Practices, which he was concerned in for a long Time. He confessed that his wicked Life had brought him to a Fate he deserved; but he earnestly besought the Lord's Pardon and Forgiveness, and was in Hopes by his Prayers and Tears to move the Almighty to extend his Mercy to his poor Soul, through the Merits of Jesus Christ.

5. Anne Vaine , aged 20, was born in the Parish of St. Andrew's Holborn , and brought up by her Parents, who were poor, and not able to give her any Education at all; but when she was old enough, she was sent to cry and sell about the Streets whatever was the Produce of the Season of the Year, for her Subsistance and Livelihood. She solemnly declared, and after I had acquainted her with the Nature of the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, she was willing, and desired earnestly to receive it, declaring, not only that she was not the Person concerned in the Robbery (if any was committed on the Prosecutor) as was charged upon her, but that she never was guilty of any Robbery whatsoever. When the Constable apprehended her, she asked him, What it was for? He only told her in Reply, It was Time enough for her to know when he had taken her before a Justice. She was in the City Liberties when taken, but the Prosecutor, and the other Witness, by the Constable's Advice, agreed to take her to a Justice of Peace quite out of the Liberties of both where the Fact was supposed to be done, and she apprehended. She lamented her Fate, and said, she never had any other Thoughts than of getting an honest Livelihood by her Calling; and therefore to be brought to an untimely End was so much the more unexpected and terrible to her. She said she forgave her Prosecutor, and all concerned against her, from her Heart, and hoped that God would forgive her.

6. William Mc.Laughlin , aged 28, born at Wexford in the Kingdom of Ireland , and bred up in the Roman Catholick Persuasion, was a Man of a sullen, obstinate Disposition, and would by no Means be communicative, nor scarce suffer himself to be talked to. He said he was bound ' Prentice to a Butcher , but not liking that Business, which is

somewhat laborious, he betook himself to the Sea , and has in the End of his Life added towards verifying the old English Proverb, which is but too often the Fruits of Idleness and Roving. He says he has been in the Service for some Years, but how, and where, he either could not tell himself, or would not; and the rest of his Life is all a Secret, 'till for some evil Practice he was put into Custody of a Watchman, whom he robbed, and treated very ill, at the same Time he robbed the Prosecutor. There was indeed another Indictment against him for that Fact, but the other appearing so plain, it was thought needless to try him upon it. However, he denies the Fact for which he was convicted, though so plainly proved against him; nay, the very Character the Persons he called into his Aid and Defence gave him, added Circumstances from whence his Guilt might be inferred, tho' they alone are seldom sufficient to produce a Conviction in the Place where he had his Trial. About six Weeks before this Fact he was in Custody, as above, two Days and a Night, for knocking a Man down upon the King's Highway, and for that Offence was liable to Indictment; but the Person then by him injured, frighted with the Menaces of his Accomplices, in case he prosecuted McLaughlin, was at last glad to consent to his being let go. This might have been a Warning to him, if he had any Sense of the Evil of his Ways; but nothing less than Justice overtaking him, could have stopt his Course, his Genius seeming somehow or other suited to the Purposes of Rapine and Plunder.

Barbarity and Cruelty appeared to be rooted in his Breast, as far as he was concerned in committing this Fact, and there can be no Manner of Doubt of his Guilt; for on the 29th of March last, McLaughlin, and three Persons his Comrades, were, like the Devil, lying in wait to see whom they might destroy; and the Prosecutor, with the Watchman, lighting him Home, happened to fall into their Clutches. They were all three concerned in robbing them, but it does not appear that any but McLaughlin treated them ill. They robbed the Prosecutor of the Things mentioned in the Indictment, and afterwards took away his Hat and Wig; but by his Entreaties they at last relented, and gave him them back again: But McLaughlin knocked down and robbed the poor Watchman, and used him barbarously, by jumping upon his Breast; upon which the poor Man only said, Why do you use me so barbarously? I did not use you so when I had you in my Custody two Days and a Night; and they began to threaten and swear at him in a most shocking Manner, bidding him deliver; and they took from him one Shilling and Four-pence, and his Hat and Wig.

This Affair was next Day noised Abroad in the Neighbourhood, and that McLaughlin was one concerned in it. A Constable, whose Business called him there, went to the Three Mackerels, and seeing him there, knew him, and took him. The Constable saying to him, You are the Man that abused the Watchman, he seemed to speak of it with Pleasure, and replied, The Watchman was very much abused, and I did it; repeating again, in an exulting Manner, I am the Man that did it: (I suppose in Revenge that the poor Watchman had done his Duty, and kept him in his Custodylonger than he approved of. The Constable having taken him sent for a Watchman, who being come, said directly upon Sight of him, this is the Man that abused me, and stamp'd upon my Breast, accordingly they had him before a Justice, who committed him to Newgate . The Man who has committed a Crime of which he ought to be ashamed and repent, must have a proper Sense of it in order thereto. But this Man had no Sense of it at all, therefore could not be ashamed, nor repent. But the Goodness and Mercy of God is infinite.

7. Thomas Kingsmill , alias Staymaker , aged 28, was born at Goudhurst in the County of Kent , a young Fellow of enterprizing Spirit, and for some Years past employed by the Chiefs of the Smugglers, the monied Men or Merchants, as they are usual among themselves called, in any dangerous Exploits or wicked Undertakings. As this Character in general among his own Countrymen was, that of a bold resolute Man, undaunted, and fit for the wicked Purposes of Smuggling; such as intimidated People, in Case of any Suspicion of betraying their Secrets, opposing King's Officers in their Duty, and being concerned in Rescues of any Sort, or Kind, so he wanted not Business, but was made a Companion for the greatest of them all, and was always at that Service, when wanted and called upon.

He would own nothing of himself, and was scarce to be persuaded that he had done any thing amiss by following the bad Practices of Smugling. Kingsmill however was concerned in the general Design, and actual Fact of robbing the Custom-house at Pool , and tho' he was not there at the first Meeting of this Gang; yet 'tis evident by the Consequence, that he was applied to by one of them, and consented to it. For he with others came and joined at the Forest of Bace near to Horn Dean ; the Company he came with was called the Hankhurst Gang, and he appears to have been one of the most active in the whole Affair.

8. William Fairall , alias Shepherd , aged 25, was born at Horsendown-Green in the County of Kent , bred to no Business, yet I could learn, inured to Smuggling from his Infancy, and acquainted with most of the evil Practices which have been used in those Parts for some Years past. In this Behaviour he seem'd equally as well qualified for the Work, as was Kingsmill, if any Thing, he had the Advantage; and 'tis generally believed that they were concerned together in most, if not all their Undertakings. Fair all at his Trial seem'd to shew the utmost Daringness, and Unconcern, even shewing Tokens of Threats to a Witness, as he was giving his Evidence to the Court, and standing all the while in the Barr with a Smile or rather a Sneer upon his Countenance. He came also to the Gang with Kingsmill to the Forest of Bace , and was one of the forwardest and most busy among the Company. Yet would he not own against himself any one thing that he had done amiss, for which his Life should be at Stake. However, his own Countrymen were glad when he was removed from among them, because he was known to be a desperate Fellow, and no Man could be safe, who Fairall should once think had done any Thing to offend him. For Instance, he was once apprehended and about to be brought to the New Goal in Southwark , but somehow

had the good Luck to escape from the Officers, that had the Care of him; upon his Return home, he immediately, sets to work, and meditates Revenge upon the Gentleman, who was thought to have granted the Warrant for his being taken. Accordingly the Gentleman going one Day abroad, Fairall, and Kingsmill with others, way-layed his Return in the Evening near his own Park Wall; and 'tis generally believed had it not been for an Incident that happened in his Return, which retarded his coming Home, and tired their Patience, he would inevitably have been murdered by them. Because they were overheard to say, D - n him, he won't come Home to Night, let's be gone about other Business; and accordingly they went away angry at their Disappointment.

9. Richard Perrin , alias Pain , alias Carpenter , aged 36, was born near Chichester in the County of Sussex ; being bred a Carpenter , was looked upon as a good Work-man, and had pretty Business, till, the Use of his right Hand, being in a great Measure taken away by being subject to the Palsey, he thought proper to leave that Trade, and to take to smuggling. He was esteemed a very honest Man as to every other Affair of Life, and was therefore often entrusted by others to go over the Water to buy Goods for them, and for himself too he traded in that Way for Brandy and Tea. And he was the Man, that went over for this very Cargo of Goods, that was rescued from Pool Custom-house . Having talked to them several Times, each by himself and all together; neither of them all three would own any particular Share they had in the Fact; but said they knew best what they had done; and for what was amiss they would seek God's Forgiveness, and continued thus to declare to the last. They have indeed appeared very devout, ever since they received Sentence of Death, they were attentive to public, and fond of private Prayer, and Psalm-singing, continuing therein frequently till twelve, one, and 2 o'Clock, as I learned from those who watch'd with them o'Nights. The whole Affair of their assembling and robbing Pool Custom House , was as follows.

A Set of Smuglers had agreed to send for a Cargo of Brandy, Rum and Tea, and Perin was the Man pitch'd upon to be intrusted to fetch and bring it, in a Vessel call'd the Three Brothers.

He went and bought the Goods, and upon his Return, came unluckily in Sight of Capt . William Johnson in the Swift Privateer , station'd out of Stantnham Bay near Pool , having a Deputation from the Customs to seize prohibited Goods. When she found he had discovered her, she put before the Wind, but the Captain with all the Sail he could make, gave her chase from before five in the Afternoon, till about eleven at Night; when having fir'd several Shot at her, he brought her too, and took Charge of her. He carried the Goods to the Custom-house at Pool , and delivered them into the Charge of the Collector of the Customs there. This happened on the twenty-second of Sept. 1747.

When Perin got Home, no Doubt he made his Report what was become of the Goods; and the People concerned, not willing to put up with such Usage, as having their Goods taken from them by lawful Authority, resolved to make Trialwhether they could not unlawfully lay their Hands on them again; which they were determined to do at all Events: Accordingly, soon after Michaelmas, in the Beginning of October, there was a Meeting called at Rowland-Castle, but it does not appear that any one of these three were present at that Time: At another Meeting at Charlton Forest , belonging to the Duke of Richmond, Richard Perin was present, and the People there met set their Hands to a Piece of Paper, to go and break open Pool Custom-House, and take out the Goods seized from Perin, and one Edmund Richards set down the Names. This was three or four Days before they went to Pool ; and the Consultation was held under a noted Tree in the Forest, called the Centre Tree, when it was concluded to go after the Tea; only Perin present here. From hence they proceeded to Bace , where the Hawkhurst Men came, and joined the Company that came from Charlton Forest, who staid in a lone Place for them till they came up. Amongst these was Kingsmill and Fairall; and now the joint Companies made 30 in Number, all arm'd, and determin'd to fetch away the Tea that had been taken from them, and lodged in Pool Custom-House, by Force. From hence they proceeded in a Body to Lindhurst , and coming there in the Evening, rested all the next Day, and that Evening, just as the Day shut in, they set out for Pool , all armed, and were there about Eleven at Night. They went to the back Side of the Town, and left the Horses in a narrow Lane, to the Care of Perin and another; but the first Thing they did was to send two Men to see if the Way was clear for them to go to work in breaking open the Warehouse, when one of them observing there was a large Sloop lying up against the Quay, and fearing lest she might plant her Guns against the Custom-House Door, and tear them to Pieces, said, It cannot be done; and some of them were turning to go back again, when Kingsmill and Fairall, and the rest of their Company, said, If you will not do it, we will go and do it ourselves: But another having observed the Tide to be low, and that the Vessel could not bring her Guns to bear to fire upon them, to the Custom-House then strait they went, and broke the Door open with two Iron Bars; and having made a free Passage to the Tea Warehouse, they carried it all away, except what was scattered about the Floor, most of the Bags having been opened an Inch or two, to see what Condition the Tea was in. Immediately all Hands were at Work, some in carrying, and some in lading the Horses. Kingsmill and Fairall were as much concerned as the rest in carrying and lading; but Perin still kept by the Horses; and when they were all loaded, every Man took his Horse, and away they rid to a little Town near Fordington. At the next Place they stopt they weighed the Tea with two Pair of Stilliards, and having distributed to every Man his equal Quantity, then took their Leaves, and went every one to his own Home.

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

ON Wednesday the 26th Instant, Dominic White , Wm. M'c-Laughlin , and Wm. Horner , in one Cart, Thomas Kingsmill and Wm. Fairall in another, Richard Perin in a Mourning-Coach, David Davis , Anne Vaine , and Joseph Walters , went from Newgate to the Place of Execution, attended by a large Party of Foot-Guards; where having offered up Prayers to God for Forgiveness of their Sins, and recommended them to Divine Mercy, the Cart was withdrawn from under them, whilst they called on the Lord to receive their Souls.

White and Mc Laughlin died in the Communion of the Church of Rome , and a Number of Sailors assembled together to take their Bodies; which they did accordingly.

David Davis was put into a Coffin carried in the Cart with him, and taken care of by his Friends. The Bodies of Horner, Vaine, and Walters, were respectively taken Care of by their Friends; and the Bodies of Thomas Kingsmill and Wm. Fairall were attended by a Party of the Guards, to be delivered to the Sheriff of Kent, in order to their being hung up in Chains, the former at Goudhurst , the latter at Horsendown Green , where he once lived.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

