THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, & Dying Words Of the TEN MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Friday the 28th of OCTOBER, 1748.

BEING THE Sixth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble Sir Robert Ladbroke , Knt . LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER VI. For the said YEAR.

LONDON :

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.XLVIII.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate , held before the Right Honourable Sir ROBERT LADBROKE , Knight , Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice WILLES, JOHN STRACEY , Esq ; Recorder , and others of His Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, for the City of London , and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate , holden for the said City, and County of Middlesex , at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 7th, Thursday the 8th, Friday the 9th, and Saturday the 10th of September, in the 22d Year of His Majesty's Reign; JOHN LANCASTER , JOHN ROBERTS , JOHN ARMSON , THOMAS ATKINS , ROBERT CUNNINGHAM , WILLIAM GARNER , and THOMAS THOMPSON , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence accordingly; at the same Time FRANCIS ANDREWS was attainted, and convicted of Felony.

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate , held before the Right Honourable Sir ROBERT LADBROKE , Knight , Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice WILLES, Mr. Baron LEGGE, JOHN STRACEY , Esq ; Recorder , and others of His Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, for the City of London , and Justices of Goal-Deliveryof Newgate , holden for the said City, and County of Middlesex , at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 12th, Thursday the 13th, and Friday the 14th of October, in the 22d Year of His Majesty's Reign; SAMUEL CHAPMAN , SARAH KENIGEM, and THOMAS EMERSON , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence accordingly.

Most of those convicted the former Sessions, have been afflicted with great Illness, upon which Account their Attendance at Chapel was not so constant, as otherwise would have been; but as often as their Indisposition would permit, they did attend. And those of the last Sessions have been in the same Case during the short Time since their Conviction, only Emerson attended constantly; and their Behaviour in general has been such as was befitting their unhappy Circumstances.

On Thursday the 20th Instant, the Report of 18 Malefactors was made by Mr. Recorder to the Lords of the Regency, when they were pleased to order the 11 following for Execution, viz. John Lancaster , John Roberts , John Armson , Thomas Atkins , Robert Cunningham , William Garner , Thomas Thompson , Samuel Chapman , Sarah Kenigem, and Thomas Emerson , on Friday the 28th; and at the same Time Francis Andrews was ordered by the Lords Justices to be executed.

1. JOHN LANCASTER was indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling-house of William Austin , about the Hour of Two in the Morning, and stealing nineteen Yards of Velvet, Value 8 l. the Property of John Powel , in the Dwelling-house of William Austin , the 30th of August .

2. JOHN ROBERTS , otherwise RUMPH , of St. Luke , Middlesex , was indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling-house of Henry Green , about the Hour of Two in the Morning, and stealing a Stuff-damask Gown, Value 21 s. a Cotton Gown, Value 8 s. a Cloth Cloak, Value 8 s. a Pair of Shoebuckles, Value 12 s. 6 d. a Stockbuckle, Value 18 d. 3 Spoons, Value 6 s. and an Apron, Value 5 s. the Property of the said Henry Green , July 11 .

3. JOHN ARMSON , of Kensington , was indicted for stealing 12 l. in Money, the Property of Edmund Wood , in his Dwelling-house, July the 29th .

4. THOMAS ATKINS , was indicted for assaulting Jacob Salvador on the King's Highway, in the Parish of Islington , putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Silver Watch, Value 5 l. a Silver Watch-chain, Value 5 s. a Seal, one Guinea, two Half-guineas, and two Shillings, the Property of the said Jacob Salvador , August the 22d .

5. ROBERT CUNNINGHAM , otherwise CULLINGHAM , the younger, late of Wingfield , in the County of Suffolk , Labourer , was indicted, for that he, with divers other Malefactors, Disturbers of the Peace of the Kingdom, to wit, to the Number of forty Persons, or more, whose Names are unknown, after the Twenty-fourth Day of July, in the Nineteenth Year of His Majesty's Reign, to wit, on the 10th Day of March, in the 20th Year of His Majesty's Reign, did, at Horsey , in the County of Norfolk , with Fire-Arms, and other offensive Weapons, riotously, unlawfully, and feloniously assemble themselves together, in order to be aiding and assisting in running, landing, and carrying away unaccustomed Goods, and Goods liable to pay Duties, which had not been paid or secured; in Defiance and Contempt of the King and His Laws, to the evil Example of all others, against the Peace of his Crown and Dignity, and against the Form of the Statute in that Case made and provided .

6. WILLIAM GARNER , of the Parish of St. Andrew, Holborn , was indicted for that he, not having the Fear of God before his Eyes, &c. on the 6th Day of July, in the 21st Year of His Majesty's Reign, in and upon Hepzibah Dover , Spinster , did make an Assault, and her the said Hepzibah did feloniously ravish, and carnally know and abuse, against the Form of the Statute in that Case made and provided .

7. THOMAS THOMPSON , was indicted for stealing a brown Mare, of the Price of 5 l. the Property of William Palmer , July 26 .

8. FRANCIS ANDREWS , was indicted upon a Suggestion, for not surrendering himself according to the Direction of an Act of Parliament of the 19th Year of His Majesty's Reign, and according to the Order of Council, within forty Days after the first Publication of the said Order, in the London Gazette .

9. SAMUEL CHAPMAN , otherwise BULLY CHAPMAN, was indicted for being concerned with divers other Persons armed with Fire-Arms, in order to be aiding and assisting in the running, landing, and carrying away unaccustomed Goods, and for not surrendering himself within forty Days, from the first Publication in the London Gazette, dated June 24, 1748 .

10. SARAH KENIGEM , of St. Paul's Shadwell , was indicted for stealing twenty-seven Guineas, the Property of Richard Mawhood , in the Dwelling-house of William Bedell , September 22 .

I. John Lancaster , aged 22, was born in Black Lion Yard , in St. Mary Whitechappel Parish, was bound Apprentice to a Velvet Weaver , and served his Time all but six Months; was Journeyman to several Masters afterward, but last to Mr. Powel. He says, for these six Months last past, he has led a debauched, dissolute Life, and some Time ago was committed, and took his Trial at the Old Bailey, being charged with a Felony; but there not being Evidence sufficient to prove it against him, he was for that Time acquitted.

During his Confinement for a short Space of Time in Newgate , he became acquainted with one J - L -, who was there with him as a Criminal. They were very intimate, and acquitted that Sessions together. Lancasterwent Home to his Friends, the Appearance of the Court having for the present struck such a Terror into him, that he thought never to run the Risk again of being brought before it: But, it is generally observed, that once entered on these wicked Courses, they seldom leave till Justice overtakes them; and he had not been long at Liberty, but he and two more set out on an Expedition, intending to rob every one they met: And in June last, two Miles on this Side Rumford, they met a Gentleman on Horseback, whom they beset, and robbed of a Metal Watch, and some Money, and sold the Watch for 1 l. 2 s.

After this, L - came to Lancaster, I think he said the 24th of August, and accosting him with an Oath, said to him, What signifies working all Day for a Trifle; prithee go along with me, we will get Money enough, and live well. Thus their Acquaintance renewed again, and as they were going together towards Bartholomew Fair, they met a Boy that had stolen a Half-pint Silver Mug. The Boy, knowing them to be of the Trade, tells them what he had got, and as he was too far off from where he used to sell his Prizes, advised with them about it. They were then near Duke's Place (a great Receptacle of stolen Goods) where Lancaster and L - used to deal. The Few they applied to would not buy it then; the only Reason given, was, there were too many together, and he was afraid of Discovery. Then they went to another Jew, one Levi Chitty , who not being then at Home, they went to an Ale-house near by to wait his Return. While they were there, Lancaster says, that L - could not forget his old Tricks, but opened a little Door of a Closet, and stole a Holland Apron, a Napkin, and a scarlet Cloak. Lancaster seeing him, busy in the Closet, asked him, What he did there, and what he was about? They might have taken more Things, but Lancaster, afraid of being discovered, thought it the best Way to march off with what they had, paid the Landlord for the Pint of Beer they drank, and went away with Design to sell the Mug the Boy had brought them.

When they came to Levi Chitty 's, they found him at Home; who, looking at it, said it was not Sterling, but asked what Price they set upon it. They asked him a Guinea, but he replied, it was not worth Half a Guinea: So at that Time they did not agree, but came down Stairs, and found the Boy at the Door waiting for their Return. For the present they agreed to go and make away with the Things they had stolen at the Ale-house, which they sold for Half a Crown; L - gave Lancaster and the Boy 8 d. apiece, and kept the rest himself. And back again they repaired to Levi Chitty with the Mug, and by the Way they laid a Scheme to sling the Boy out of his Share of it. Says L - to Lancaster, you shall go up one Pair of Stairs to Levi, and I will tell the Boy you are gone to receive the Money for the Mug, and intend to cheat him of his Share; so I will send him up two Pair of Stairs, and that while you may come down. Lancaster slipped the Boy, and went to meet L - according to Agreement (not yet having sold the Mug, at the Sun in Bishopsgate-Street . Here they met again, and the Boy having lost Sight of them, they went to Levi Chitty 's, and sold the Silver Mug for 17 s. The Jew told them he had not given them 17 s. for the Mug, but that they might be encouraged to bring something better; and said, bring what you will, I deal in every Thing: I melt down all Plate that comes to my Hands, and send it to Holland.

August 25. They stole some brazen Branches, worth about 50 s. and sold to Levi for a Crown: In the Evening they went to Goodman's-Fields Wells , and bilk'd the House of the Reckoning.

26. They went to Bartholomew-Fair , pick'd Pockets of four or five Handkerchiefs; went to Sadler's-Wells , and spent that Evening.

27. Met again, went to the Royal Exchange, with a Design to pick Pockets; but Lancaster not being well versed in that Art, they went again to Bartholomew-Fair , got some Handkerchiefs, and went that Evening to the House where one Sarah Cock lived, whose Husband was executed some Time since. By the Way, Lancaster says, that L -, for his farther Encouragement, told him, he and the said Cock had gotten some Hundred Pounds in two Years Space by their Tricks and Robberies:

28. They met once more, went among Westley's People in Moorfields ; that Day they picked several Pockets of Handkerchiefs, and at Night went to hear Whitfield. Lancaster says he thought then he was perswaded within himself to leave off all Thievery, and depend upon his Labour for Subsistence, But

29. They met as usual; says L - to Lancaster, Come, let us see if we cannot get something; Money is gone, it will never do to go thus without it. As they were going along, Lancaster says, it suddenly came into his Head, that if he could come at some Velvet it would be a good Prize. Accordingly they agreed, and went through Spittle-Yard , into Wine-Court , to the Dwelling-house of one William Austin . L - stay'd hard by, while Lancaster went into the House, to see whether Things were in the same Situation as when he worked there. He drank Beer with two of the Weavers, and viewing the House, found it very convenient for his Purpose, took his Leave, and came down to L -, who immediately asked, How the Expedition was like to turn out? Upon which, the other reply'd, Bravely well; we may get two or three hundred Pounds To-night if we get safe off: For, had not their Fear scared them, their Design was to carry off all they could find, and there was then a great deal of Velvet upon the Looms. Thus they built Castles in the Air, and agreed, after having got this Booty, and some Plate at the Black Dog in Shoreditch , which L - had an Eye upon, to go into the Country, and live upon their Plunder. But

In his greatest Security he was most in Danger: They passed this Day together, and in the Evening went to Goodman's-Fields Wells , having nowonly picked a Sailor's Pocket of a Handkerchief; but being too soon to go upon the Velvet Expedition, to keep them in Employ, they got amidst a Mob thereabout assembled, and picked up several more Handkerchiefs. Then they began to consult what to do with the Velvet when they had got it, and how they should convey it away. To this End they thought a Bag necessary, and accordingly, having no other Materials, sew'd two blue Linnen Aprons together, which Lancaster wore, more to blind the World than for Use (having for some Time past left off Work) and made one. Being yet but Eleven o'Clock, it was too soon for their Business, and they went to pass away an Hour or two at the above-mention'd Sarah Cock 's. Among other Discourse, they ask'd her, Whether, if they got any Goods, she would take them in, and secret them? She told them, Yes; and they lay down to sleep. About Two o'Clock in the Morning of the 30th L - waked Lancaster, and said, it was Time to go upon Business. Lancaster says his Mind misgave him, and he was very loath to go that Night; but L - swore he should: So they got up, and went away to Vine-Court.

About Two o'Clock in the Morning of the 30th they came to Austin's House, who was the Maker of the Velvet for Mr. Powel; L - help'd up Lancaster on the Penthouse, under the Window, who broke a Pane of Glass out of the Window, unfastened the Window, and got into the Room, where was a great deal of Velvet; and going to the farther End of the Chamber, cut off 19 Yards and an half out of the Looms. He says, he might have gone on to take more, but thinking he heard some of the People of the House stir, he resolved to move off with what he had got. When he had thus done, he threw it out at the Window, and L - received it; so coming down again, he asked his Companion, Whether any Body had passed by in the interim? He answered No, we are very safe. He says further, had he gone up Stairs, they might have taken so much as would have ruined Austin; but his Fears prevented, and gave Wings to his Heels.

As soon as they had recovered themselves from their Fears, they resolved to go back to the before-mentioned Sarah Cock 's, where they and their Prize was secreted, and they staid there 'till Nine o'Clock next Morning. Then they agreed that she should take the Velvet in her Apron, which she did, and carried it to an Alehouse near to the Place where the Jew, Levi Chitti , lived: L - went before, and Lancaster followed by himself, going a roundabout Way, for fear of being found out, thinking a Search would be made after him as soon as the Loss was discovered. However, they all met at the Place appointed, and Lancaster and L - carried the Velvet to the Jew's House. He asked them, What they expected per Yard? They wanted half a Guinea; but he told them, Three or four Shillings was as much as he could give; it was but a bad Colour, and would not sell well: He sent all he sold to Holland, and it would cost him somewhat before he went to Market. However, he cut off a Piece for a Sample, and went out, sending them to an Alehouse hard by, viz. the King's Arms , in Gravel-Lane , Bishopsgate-Street , where they sat down in the publick Drinking-Room. Soon after came Mr. Powel's People in quest of him, and asked, If John Lancaster was there? The People of the House not knowing him, he believes, answered, No. But they looking about, saw him, and said, Here is the Man we want: Sir, you must go along with us. He pretended he knew not for what; and said, He would not go without a proper Officer; who was presently fetched, and charged with both Lancaster and Lewis. They were carried before the Sitting-Alderman at Guild-Hall , who committed Lewis to the Poultry , and Lancaster to Woodstreet-Compter . They were afterwards carried before the Lord Mayor, and Lewis, either then, or before, discovered the whole Matter, and was admitted an Evidence for the King.

Postscript of a Letter sent by Peter Dormer to Lancaster, while under Sentence of Death in the Cells in Newgate .

I and a Friend of mine happening to be drinking a Pot of Beer the Day you was tried with Ann Moss , has given Occasion to some malicious Persons to represent that you and we were all alike; but as you know, and I do appeal to God and your Conscience how much I abominate such Things. I hope, before you leave the World, you will publickly clear me of such Aspersions.

Upon his Word, as a Dying-Man, Lancaster declares the above Peter Dormer to be entirely free from all Communication with him in any Theft or Robbery whatsover.

2. Thomas Atkins , aged 19, was born in London , and had such an Education as taught him better Things, though he has been one of that unhappy Number, who, led by too strong Passion, or evil Communication, have erred from the Paths of Duty, and run headlong to Ruin. Of his Unhappiness herein he is very sensible, and greatly laments his Misconduct, which has hurried him thus early out of Life, as he had once a Prospect of living decently and reputably in it. He acknowledges himself to have been very naughty, and to have been guilty of several Follies and Misdemeanors; upon account of which, his Relations thought proper to send him to Sea , out of the Way of the bad Company he was likely to fall into. Accordingly, the Beginning of last Summer they sent him on Board His Majesty's Ship the Barfleur, then lying a Guard-Ship at the Nore, where he remained till she was paid off, and then returned Home to his unhappy Father, to whom he was doubly bound to behave well, both as a Son and an Apprentice ; but being tainted so early, the Seeds of Iniquity grew up in him, and came to Maturity full soon. After he came Home, he unhappily got himself married to a Daughter of a Woman who always pretended to him to give Money with her; whereas, he says, it turned out quite the reverse, for they were always teazing him for Money, and all he got by his Business would not do to satisfy their Demands.

At last, on the 22d of August, being vexed in his Mind about these Things, he went, however, in the Morning, with Design to go to Work, he says, (and happy had it been for him had he so done) but missing the Diamond with which he cut Glass, he was more enraged, and instead of going to Work, went to an Ale-house, and got himself in Liquor; afterwards he borrowed a Horse, rode out, and committed the Fact for which he was indicted; viz. he met a Chariot in Islington Back-Road , robbed the Gentlemen in it of their Watches, and some Money, and was taken in half an Hour after, going up Highgate-Hill .

3. John Roberts , aged 24, was born at Rye in Kent , and being left an Orphan about eight Years of Age, was put Apprentice , but not liking his Trade, chose rather to work as a common Labourer to any one that would give him Employment. Sometimes he drove a Cart , or did any other Business as a Porter , to go on Errands, or carry Burthens , &c. He was chiefly busied, he says, of late, in making Blue Indigo , by which he got a pretty good Livelihood, and wishes he had been content with his Wages. He does not give any Account of ever having been guilty of the common Practice of Thiev'ry, except once before this Fact for which he suffers; and that was stealing 12 Handkerchiefs at one Time from a Shop in Whitecross Street . However,

On the 11th of July last past, he, and the other two Men, broke open the House of Henry Green , about Two o'Clock in the Morning, and entering by the Window, between them stole Goods out of it to a considerable Value. The Window was that Night, it seems, fastened on the Inside with a Gimblet, besides Shutters on the Outside. He says he did not go into the House himself, though he broke open the Window, but sat astride the Window, expecting when the Goods would be brought, and he received them. He owns the having and disposing of most of the Goods mentioned in the Indictment, and leaves this World in Hopes of being forgiven in the World to come; since he was induced to be an Accomplice in this Robbery by cunning and artful Thieves, who, Devil-like, led him into a Scrape, and left him in it.

4. John Armson , aged 19, was born in Cheshire , and being bred a Labourer in Agriculture and Gardening , work'd with his Father from his Infancy till within about six Months last past, when he took it into his Head to ramble, and came up to Town. After some Time he got a Lodging in Kensington , and was admitted to work as a Labourer in the King's Gardens there. He says he got Money enough to maintain him in this Way, and never thought of committing a Robbery till he unhappily fell into this; that he had been intrusted to receive Money for the House, Reckonings, &c. it being a Public House, and never wronged Mr. Wood of a Farthing; that he did not break into the House, he being a Lodger in it; but going up and down, he looked into the Room, and saw the Drawer open which contained the Money; and no Person being near, and himself in Liquor, he was tempted to take the Money and shut to the Drawer, it having a Spring. Lock. He says, when he came to think with himself what he had done, he would have put the Money in again; but could not get open the Drawer, so he went and hid it; and being taken up the next Day, he went with the Constable, and shewed him where he had hid it, in Love-Lane , by Kensington .

5. Thomas Thompson , aged 22, was born at Otley in Yorkshire , bred to no Business. His Father dying in 1741, he says, left his Mother very poor, with several Children. The Parish would have put this out an Apprentice, but he not liking it, said he would go to Sea . An Officer of the Parish was going with him for that Purpose, who by the Way got him a Place at an Inn, the Post-Office in Durham , to be Waiter three Days, and ride Post the rest of the Week. Here he lived three Years, playing several wicked Tricks, particularly keeping Money sent with Letters, which his Master was not for some Time acquainted with, nor suspected till he was gone.

His three Years being out according to Agreement, he went home to Otley , staid with his Friends a Week, and got another Place at the King's Head at Rippen , where he staid but three Months. In this Time, however, he made bold to rob the Maid-servant's Box of 12 or 13 l. and went back again to Otley ; where, when he was come, he found, that an old Aunt of his had left him a Legacy of 12 l. 10 s. which he received, and spent as fast as he could: However, before it was done, he got himself decently cloathed, and came up to London .

He had not been long in Town at a Relation's, e'er he stole two Silver Tea-spoons from her, and carried them to a Silver-smith at Charing-Cross to sell; telling him, they were his own, which he had lately brought out of Yorkshire with him. Being desired to make himself known, he directed to a wrong Place; but, while the Messenger was gone, slipped out of the Shop. The Silver-smith afterwards meets him in the Strand , took him to his Shop, and would have sent for an Officer to apprehend him; but he begging very hard, was asked, If he would go for a Soldier. They carried him over to the Mitre, and there was inlisted to go to the East-Indies , he says; but the People, concerned, said, If he would give them twenty Shillings, they would let him go, and no-body else should know of it. Accordingly he sent for his Relation, from whom he stole the Spoons, to buy him off, but she would not; so he sold his own Cloaths, and brought himself off.

His Friends then persuaded him to return to Otley , which he did, and there staid a Month; when, being at a Dancing with an old Sweet-heart of his, who lived about four Miles from him, he thought to have staid with her all Night; but she finding his Money gone, turned him adrift: So he went Home to Otley , and when he came, and found the People in Bed where he lodged, he broke into the House; and afterward broke open a Corner Cup-board, wherein was 15 s. and took it out. Not yet satisfied, he stole a Galloway the same Night, and riding off to Durham , went to his old Master's, who express'd no small Satisfaction at seeing him so well improved, as he seemed by his outward Appearance, and telling a fine Story about going to Newcastle upon Business of Consequence. Here he lay that Night, and next Morning went to Newcastle , where he staid all Day, and returned to Durham that Night, reporting, he had done Business to his Satisfaction.

The next Morning the Post-boy, who had been a Fellow- servant with him, set out Express from Durham to Darlington , where he heard of a Hue and Cry after Thompson, upon Account of the Galloway he had stole; but making no Discovery, returned next Morning, and told him of it. He immediately set out for Scotland , and sold the Galloway at Berwick upon Tweed ; from thence he went to Coppersmith , and hiring a Horse, went to Dunbar , and a Man went with him to bring it back, which he did. There he hired Post-horses, and proceeded to Edingburgh , and passed for an Officer's Servant . However, he had not been there above a Week, e'er he got into the Maid-servant's Chamber, and finding there a little Box, broke it open, took out a Gold Ring, Half a Crown, and Half a Moidore. He left the House that Night, but had the Assurance to return again next Morning, when, being taxed with it, he denied at first, but afterwards owned the Fact, and returning the Things, they let him go about his Business.

Being blown here, he went to Perth , where Part of the Army then lay, and became Servant to an Officer , lived fifteen or sixteen Weeks with him, and was turned over to Lieutenant Carter, of General Skelton's Regiment, who was going to Yorkshire recruiting, and came to his Father's at Richmond in that County; where he had not been long with his Master, but having some Words about the Silver Tip of a Sword, which he had taken off, his Master would have sent him going; but he prevented, by stealing a Horse, worth 25 l. out of his Master's Father's Stable, about Eleven at Night, which he rode into Nottinghamshire by the next Evening: But, keeping the Post-Road all the Way, was pursued by his Master, who got News of him at Aberforth , and followed him to the Inn where he lodged next Night, saw the Horse in the Stable, and enquiring after the Rider, took him in Bed. For this he was sent to Nottingham Goal , where he staid from the 3d of November to the 7th of April, was tried, convicted, and respited on Condition of Transportation for fourteen Years; but having more Liberty than others, and the Turnkey being about his Master's Business abroad, he laid a Scheme to make his Escape: He watched an Opportunity in the Evening, took the Key from the Maid-servant, who was intrusted with it, and opening the Door, went out.

Upon this he came, as fast as he could, to London , and the first Thing he did, was to list for a Soldier , in Oglethorpe's Regiment. He was put into the Savoy , and remained there about five Weeks; but falling sick, was sent to an Hospital. As soon as he recovered from his Illness, he deserted, and went to Rochester , and there inlisted a second Time, staid five Weeks, stole a Pair of Silver Buckles from the Waiter at his Quarters, and deserted again. From thence he went to Hatfield in Hertfordshire , became once more an inlisted Man in Cholmondley's Regiment, staid five or six Weeks, and deserted. Then going to Chichester , was admitted a Marine , and after about two Months being there, turned out a Volunteer to go to Sea; and so going aboard the Berwick Man of War, lying at Portsmouth Dock , which fell down afterwards to Spithead to lie a Guard-ship. The Ship returning to Portsmouth in about five Weeks, was put out of Commission, and he returned to the Van-guard, where remaining two Days, was put ashore again at Chichester . Here he staid about three Weeks, or a Month, and having sold his own Cloaths, stole others from his Comrades, and shortly after the Mare, for which he was convicted. He first got into the Stable at his own Quarters, and took a Saddle and Bridle, and then soon catch'd the Mare. He immediately proceeded for London , and came to the White Bear in Bassishaw-Street ; and, appearing in Regimentals, was afraid of being suspected, so told the People of the Inn, that he was Servant to an Officer , and just come out of Yorkshire ; that he would choose to sell the Mare, and the sooner the better, because of Expence. Accordingly the Hostler bought her for 1 l. 5 s. and Charges of the House on Thursday; but putting her to Smithfield Market , and riding her about, she was challenged, and taken from him by the Proprietor, who carried him before the Lord-Mayor, and his Master gave Bail. Now the Bargain made between Thompson and the Hostler, was, that if the Mare sold well, he was to have four or five Shillings more, upon which Account he was to call on Saturday, which he did, and a Constable being sent for, he was apprehended, and being brought before the Lord-Mayor, he owned the Fact, and was committed to Newgate .

6. Robert Cunningham , aged 26, was born in Norfolk , but was most Part of his Life an Inhabitant of Wingfield in Suffolk . He was a Man of a very close and reserved Make, would by no Means be perswaded to be communicative, and would scarce tell what was his Name; and tho' the Evidences upon his Trial so positively swore to him, and the Fact for which he was convicted, all he would say was, that he knew nothing of the Matter, nor was at Horsey , or on Horsey-Beach at the Time mentioned in the Indictment; nor would he own it to the last, though the Indictment was proved so very plain.

7. Francis Andrews , aged 33, was born in Suffolk ; says indeed that he has been a Smuggler in his Time, but that he had not done any Thing that Way for three Years last May. He farther says, that he had got some Money by that Way of Trade, which enabled him to rent a small Farm of Mr. Justice Day, which he cultivated, and maintained his Family by. He underwent great Sickness while under Sentence of Death; but being tried by Suggestion, and convicted, upon the Facts therein contained being proved and found for the King, he has nothing to say upon Account of any particular Fact, unless the not surrendering himself, as the Indictment sets forth, after the Information of William Sealey against him had been taken by the late worthy Justice Burdus, the 13th of July, 1747.

8. Samuel Chapman , aged 30, was born in Suffolk, and was a reputed Smuggler . Within two or three Days after his Conviction he was seized with a very violent Illness, which deprived him of his Senses, and in that melancholly and unhappy Condition he continued till his Execution.

9. William Garner , aged about 30, was born in Leicester , bred a Carpenter , and was working at his Business in a House the Corner of Red-Lion-Street , near Red-Lion-Square , where he committed this wicked Act. And he says, the Girl frequently coming for Shavings and Chips, they were wont to play together freely, and to be familiar, tho' without any Intention of Evil as heretofore; but, on the sixth Day of July, to the best of his Remembrance, mov'd by the Instigation of the Devil, the Girl coming as usual, he called her up into a Two-pair of Stairs Room: As soon as she came into the Room he laid Hands on her, and sitting down on the End of a Bench he had been before working on, ******. In the general he owned the Fact.

10. Sarah Kenigem , aged about 20, was born in Barnaby-Street , Southwark ; she was but of tender Years indeed, but her Life had been too early a Scene of Wickedness and Debauchery, which she fell into immediately upon her being turned adrift after her Father's second Marriage. She was exceeding ill most Part of the Time after her Conviction, even to the being deprived of her Senses; but was so happy as to have Intervals, in which she would express, in the best Terms she was able, her Sorrow for what she had done amiss; and particularly the Fact for which she suffered; viz. the taking out of a Chest of Drawers, in William Bedell 's House, 27 Guineas, the Property of Richard Mawhood .

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

ABOUT Nine o'Clock, on Friday Morning last, John Lancaster , Thomas Atkins , and John Roberts , in one Cart; Robert Cunningham , Francis Andrews , and Samuel Chapman , in the second, attended by a Party of the Foot-guards; Thomas Thompson and William Garner in the third; John Armson and Sarah Kenigem in the fourth, and sung Psalms for a considerable Time: After which, the Executioner pulling their Caps over their Faces, the Cart was drawn from under them, calling earnestly on the Lord to have Mercy on them, and receive their Souls.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

