THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who was EXECUTED at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 11th of this Instant August, 1736, AND THOMAS REYNOLDS , who was Executed July 26.

BEING THE Fourth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY, OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir JOHN WILLIAMS , Knt .

Number IV. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street , M.DCC.XXXVI.

[Price Six-Pence.]

ADVERTISEMENTS.

The most wonderful Cleansing and Strengthening DROPS, for all Sorts of Gleets and Seminal Weaknesses, and Insufficiencies of the Generative Parts and Faculties; of which there have been actually Sold, no less than between 3 and 4000 Bottles, since April 1734, that they were first Publish'd; and by their being successful, in a more remarkable manner than common, (as by many Letters and Testimonies appear) in curing the very worst of these Imbicilities, when no other Remedies tried, could reach to the Cause of them, they are daily recommended from one to another, and are now in that almost Universal Repute, as to be more and more sent for and call'd for by Persons of all Ranks, both in, Town and Country, and by divers Practitioners also both there and here to give to their own Patients.

THESE incomparable Drops, which for the abovesaid Disorders are not to be equall'd in the whole Art of Medicine, (and which, for their Elegancy as well as Excellency, are in such valuable Esteem by some of the highest Quality) were prescrib'd by the late great Dr. Radcliffe, for a certain Noble Lord, who for a long time had been vex'd with an old obstinate Gleet and Weakness, of which he was cur'd by them in a few Days, beyond all Expectation, after he had been harrass'd with Electuaries, Bolusses, Pills, Potions, Injections, and a hundred other Medicines, for many Months together in vain.

The Apothecary who prepar'd them for him, according to the Doctor's Prescription, (which he has still upon his File] has made use of them ever since, to great Numbers of People, in the very worst of Gleets, Seminal and Genital Imbecilites and Infertilities, Pains in the Back and Reins, Disorders of the Urine, and Gravel, &c. with the utmost Success and Safety; as also in all Weaknesses from Strains, as well as Venereal Relicks, excessive Coition, Self-Pollution, Seminal Emissions in the Sleep, Falls, Blows and the like in both Sexes.

And as they have never once faild him, even in Cases thought to be incurable, he now, for general Good, has made them publick; and that the meaner sort of People may partake of the Benefit of so divine a Remedy as well as the Rich, he has put them up in Bottles of but 3 s. 6 d. each, tho' for the Excellency of their Effects, they are worth their weight in Gold, more especially as one Bottle of them generally Cures, even in the most draining Gleets, and grievous Relaxations and Weaknesses of the Seminals and Genitals that are.

Nor can there be prepar'd by any Art of Skill, a more cleansing and healing, or a more strengthening and invigorating Medicine, or one that can more effectually cure Impotency, or promote Fertility, than this, as every one that but once tries it will say, by their soon finding the Difference between this and other Remedies; for it will do more in one Day, towards restoring in these Weaknesses, than any others can in ten; and is of so corroborating a Nature, that it may be entirely relied upon for curing perfectly and firmly, without Fear or Relapse, even in the tenderest Constitutions, which can hardly be said of any other Medicine; and it is withal so elegantly pleasant to the Palate and so agreeable to the Stomach, that the nicest Person is delighted with it.

Mr. West, Goldsmith in the Old-Baily, who us'd to sell these Drops, being dead, they are now Sold only by his Son-in-Law, Mr. Johnson, a Baker, at the Seven Stars in Vere-street, near Clare-Market [his Name under the Sign] seal'd up with Directions, for any Messenger, upon only asking for a Bottle of Drops, and paying 3 s. 6 d.

This Day is Published, Price 5 s.

EVERY Man his own Lawyer: Or, a Summary of the Laws of England, in a New and Instructive Method, under the following Heads, viz.

I. Of Actions and Remedies, Writs, Process, Arrests and Bail.

II. Of Courts, Attornies and Solicitors therein, Juries, Witnesses, Trials, Executions, &c.

III. Of Estates and Property in Lands and Goods, and how acquired, Ancestors, Heirs, Executors and Administrators.

IV. Of the Laws relating to Marriage, Bastardy, Infants, Ideots, Lunatis.

V. Of the Liberty of the Subject, Magna Charta, the Habeas Corpus Act, and other Statutes.

VI. Of the King and his Prerogative, the Queen, Peers, Judge, Sherists, Coroners, Justices of the Peace, Constables, &c.

VII. Of Publick Offences, Treason, Murder, Felony, Burglary, Robbery, Rape, Sodomy, Forgery, Perjury, &c. And their Punishment.

All of them so plainly treated of, that all Manner of Persons may be particularly acquainted with our LAWS and STATUTES, concerning Civil and Criminal Affairs, and know how to defend themselves, and their Estates and Fortunes; in all Cases whatsoever.

Printed for J. Hazard, against Stationers-Hall, near Ludgate.

Where may be had,

1. The Law, of Tithes, the second Edition, pr. 5 s.

2. A Tithing Table, shewing by way of Analysis, of what Things Tythes are, or are not dne, either by Common-Law, Custom, or prescription, price 1 s.

Both the above by William Bohun , of the Middle-Temple , Esq ;

THE ORDINARY Of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

ON Monday the 5th of July, 1736, before the Rt. Hon. the Lord Hardwick, Lord Chief Justice of England; and the Honourable Justices of his Majesty's Court of King's-Bench, Westminster.

Two Men, viz. James Baylis and Thomas Reynolds were, by a special Jury, after a Trial of four Hours, found guilty of a capital Crime; and then remanded back to Newgate , and ordered by the honourable Court to be brought up on Saturday next, the 10th of July, to receive Sentence of Death, when they were accordingly carried up before the Court of King's-Bench, and sentenc'd to die; and they were afterwards kept in the Cells of Newgate , until Execution of the Sentence.

While under capital Conviction and Sentence of Death, they were exhorted seriously to prepare for Death, and although they were not accused of those Crimes, for which unhappy People are commonly called to Account, such as Murder, Robbery, House-Breaking, &c. yet I shew'd them, that the Crime they stood convicted of was most atrocious, and being committed against those Laws and Regulations, which are framed and appointed by the Wisdom of the Nation, for the keeping up of Society, and the common good of Mankind, and that they who resist and contemn the King's Laws, resist the Ordinance of God; for Kings are called God's Deputies, Substitutes and Vicegerents, and they that resist shall receive to themselves Damnation; for this I cited to them the Apostle's Precept,

Let every Soul be subject to the higher Powers; for there is no Power but of God: The Powers that be, are ordained of God. Whosoever therefore resisteth the Power, resisteth the Ordinance of God; and they that resist, shall receive to themselves Damnation; for Rulers are not a Terror to good Works, but to the Evil: Wilt thou then not be afraid of the Power? Do that which is good, and thou shalt have Praise of the same, &c. Rom. xiii. 1, &c. From this I observed to them, 1st, That every Soul, i. e. all Men and Women without Exception, high and low, rich and poor, &c. by the Tenour of our Christianity, are commanded to be subject to the higher Powers, i. e, those lawful Princes, and other Governors, whom God in his good Providence hath set over us. 2dly, That it is most agreeable and reasonable, that all Persons thus subject themselves to the higher Powers, because these Powers are of God, and the Powers that be are ordained of God.

And 3dly, we observed, that Rulers, Kings and Governors were appointed for the good of Society, to keep up good Order, Decency, Uniformity, and Peace among Men, and therefore they were to be respected and obey'd as the Ordinance of God, and as being a Terror not to good Works, but to the Evil; so that if one will not be afraid of the Power, he ought to do that which is good, and then he shall have Praise of the same.

While they had these and many like Exhortations, both of them were very sick and weak, and scarce able to walk, being oblig'd to be supported by the Runners of Newgate; yet they gave punctual Attendance in Chapel, and behav'd always with abundance of Submission and Resignation, and outward Signs of Repentance: They wept much, and shed plenty of Tears, especially James Baylis , who griev'd and lamente very much; as likewise did his Wife and two or three young Children, whom he tenderly loved. His Wife came up to London after him, and did him all the Service that lay in her Power, 'till at length she was seiz'd with a violent Fever, and lay sick at a publick Inn, without any Expectation of Life: After her Husband was under Sentence of Death, she grew a little better, came to wait on him as often as she could be allow'd, and although still in a weak state of Health, did him all the kind Offices that lay in her Power; yea, and much more than could be expected; and among other important Services she did him, she constantly went through the Town, begging of some People of Note, to interceed for a Reprieve for her Husband, which Favour, to her great Joy, was at length happily obtained.

Baylis was ignorant, and could not read, and neither of them made any Responses in Chapel; Reynolds, because of his bad State of Health, al

ways laying down his Head, being mightily dejected; yet they were both very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, shewing the greatest Concern imaginable, having none of those indifferent or indecent Carriages which many, under the like unfortunate Sentence, are too apt to fall into, but always behaving as true Penitents, who were careful to make up their Peace with God, before they were obliged to leave this miserable and vain World.

Upon Wednesday the 21st of July, a Rule of the honourable Court of King's-Bench, came to Newgate, for Execution of the said two Malefactors, James Baylis and Thomas Reynolds , lying in the Cells of Newgate , upon Monday the 26th of July last.

Upon Friday the 23d of July, her Majesty's most gracious Reprieve was sent to Newgate , for James Baylis , one of the two Men, who were under Sentence of Death, for being concern'd in the Tumult rais'd at Ledbury in Herefordshire ; the other Person, Thomas Reynolds , was order'd for Execution, on Monday the 26th of July last.

Thomas Reynolds (with James Baylis repriev'd) having been accus'd some Time since, of pulling down and destroying Ledbury Turnpikes , in the County of Hereford , was not try'd particularly for that Crime; but he was indicted, before the Rt. Hon. the Lord Haudwick, Lord Chief Justice of the King's-Bench, and the honourable Justices of his Majesty's Court of King's-Bench, Westminster, on the Black Act, for going in Disguise, and arm'd with offensive arms contrary to the said Act of Parliament: Several Witnesses appear'd, and gave satisfactory Evidence to the Court: The Jury, (having been a special Jury call'd for that Purpose) after a Trial of four Hours, found them guilty of the Indictment. Death.

They were order'd back to Newgate , and on Saturday the 10th of July last, by Appointment, they were carried up to Westminster-hall , and received Sentence of Death.

1. Thomas Reynolds , 28 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Ledbury Parish , Herefordshire , who put him to School, where he was taught to read, and instructed in Christian Principles: His Father having been a Farmer did not put him to a Trade, but kept him at Home, and bred him to his own way of Country-work; after the Death of his Parents, who left him young, he serv'd Farmers in the Country, and behav'd well to the liking of his Masters, having had a good Character of Honesty and Industry in his way of Life; and for a considerable Time before he was taken up, he serv'd a substantial, creditable Farmer, within a Mile, and in the Parish of Ledbury , and had Intention to marry, and to take a convenient Farm, if the Humour, which of late possess'd a great many Coun

try People in several Parts, especially in some of the Western Countries of the Kingdom, had not prevented him. The Day this unfortunate Adventure, upon which he was taken up, happen'd, was the 28th of September last, the Day before Michaelmas-Day, about which Time, or a little before, there was a general whispering and surmize through the Country, that they would attempt the cutting down and destroying the Turnpikes about Ledbury and other Places, and for this Purpose, there were idle Fellows, who rode and stroll'd through the Country, and spirited and buoy'd up the Farmers and their Servants, to gather in Mobs, and violently to pull down and destroy the Turnpikes, which they pretended to be a great Nuisance and Imposition upon the Country; and having sufficiently fermented great Numbers of the meaner sort of People, they made an Appointment to meet upon the 28th Day of September last, and by force of Arms to destroy the Turnpikes about Ledbury in Herefordshire ; and accordingly upon the same Day in the Afternoon, a considerable Number of Farmers, and their Servants, and others of the meaner sort of People, came to the Town of Ledbury , every one with his A in his Hand, to cut down the Turnpikes in a tumultuous and riotous Manner.

The Justices of his Majesty's Peace, and other Gentlemen, being appriz'd of their Intentions, had gather'd together a Number of Constables and others to oppose the Mobbers in their Attempts; and Thomas Reynolds , the unfortunate Criminal, had with a great many others engag'd to come to the general Rendezvous, upon the Day appointed at Ledbury , though at first he denied that he had any Hand in cutting down the Turnpikes, having been taken up about two or three Hours, before the rest went out upon their mischievous Intent. The Account he gave of the Affair, so far as he was concern'd, was to this Effect.

Upon the 28th of September last, the Day appointed for their meeting, he went to Ledbury to buy a Pair of Stockings, Shoes and a hat, and as he was at the End of the Town, before he had Time to join his Associates, were come to the Town, a great Company of Men armed with Guns, Pistols, Swords, &c. seeing him coming up to encourage the Tumult, knock'd him down, and wounded him dangerously in the Head, so that he thought himself killed; he made no Opposition, only held up his Arm to guard his Head from Blows; thus having made him Prisoner, they immediately carried him before Justice Skip, in whose House he and Baylis was kept 'till all the Disturbance was over.

I am inform'd, by one who lives at Ledbury, that both of them were apprehended at one Time, the Gentlemen order'd the Turnpike to be kept open, and Baylis being in Liquor, run forwards with his Ax, that he might be first in cutting down the Turn

pike, so he fell among the Middle of them who stood as Guard, and Reynolds coming to the same Place, with the same Intent, they were then both of them taken up, much about the same Place and Time.

It was about Six o'Clock at Night, when Reynolds was taken up, and carried before Justice Skip, who secur'd him in his House for some Time. About Nine, or between Nine and Ten at Night, the Mob, consisting of a considerable Number of Country-People, went from Ledbury and cut down the Turnpike in a great Fury and Rage, and from thence they came back to Justice Skip's, in order to rescue the two Prisoners, Baylis and Reynolds, threatening no less than to burn the Gentleman's House: But to shew the Wisdom of the Conspirators in carrying on their Plot, they writ a Letter to the Justice, to let him know the Day they were to go about their unlawful Act, which put himself very prudently on his Guard, and to prevent a Surprize, he order'd all the Men of Ledbury Town, his own Servants and others, to be arm'd with Guns, Pistols and Swords, in order to defend the Turnpike from being destroy'd, and to keep the Mob from doing further Mischief: They advanc'd with such Fury and Boldness upon the Justice's House, that the armed Men were obliged to shoot, which kill'd one Man on the Spot, and four others died of their Wounds: The Mob also shot and wounded some of the Justice's Men; but after a furious Scuffle, wherein several were wounded on both Sides, the Mob despairing of any Success in their imprudent Attempt, at last dispers'd late at Night, leaving some of their Number dead on the Spot, and some wounded, besides Baylis and Reynolds kept in the Justice's House, and nine others who were taken Prisoners, two of whom were convicted at Worcester Assizes and executed, upon the Testimony of an old Man, and an old Woman, who turn'd King's Evidence: The rest of them were acquitted or discharged out of Hereford and Worcester Goals, for want of a sufficient Proof.

Reynolds told of one Francis Rolland , a Millar at Dimmock , who rode through the County of Hereford , and made it his Business every where, to exhort and persuade People to demolish the Turnpikes; he to save himself convicted one of the Men at Worcester, as a Woman did the other.

He complain'd upon some, and likewise made some trifling Excuses, which they used for a Pretence in convening in unlawful Assemblies: I told him that was no Excuse, for Grievances ought to be redress'd in a legal way, and a tumultuous Mob would never reform Abuses, but might much more probably become the Instrument of doing much more Mischief.

There was nothing engag'd him to undertake such a rash Thing as cut

ting down the Turnpikes, but the general Complaints and Surmises which run among the Country-People, no Person of any Note, but some Farmers or their Servants, concerning themselves in that Affair.

They had no Consultations about it, neither did they know the Number of those who were concern'd with them, nor how many were disguis'd, they having been taken up in the beginning of the Fray.

Some Men disguis'd themselves in Women's Attire, as Women had on Men's Habit, and they generally had their Faces black'd. Reynolds denied that his Face was further disfigur'd, than it had been by Accident, by Dust contracted, and that the Coat he had on was nothing but his coarse working Frock.

They were kept one Night in Justice Skip's House, and next day carried to Hereford Goal , where they were detain'd above six Months; from thence they were carried to Worcester Goal , there having been some Design of trying them there, where they continued three Months; and last of all they were by Habeas Corpus brought up to Newgate , London .

They could give no Account of the Manner of attacking the Justice's House, where they were both kept close Prisoners at the Time. They did not deal in Coals, but liv'd by doing Country work; and all they had to do with Turnpikes in a Year, amounted only to a Trifle.

Thomas Reynolds was a sober Man, did not use to drink to excess, neither did he swear, nor was he addicted to those base Vices to which such unhappy Creatures are commonly given. Though the Day he fell into that Misfortune, which prov'd his utter Ruin, and brought him to his fatal and disgraceful End, he and all his Companions had been drinking pretty freely on purpose for going about such an indiscreet Enterprize.

He used to go to Church, and had sometimes taken the Sacrament. He lamented that he had no Friends to own him, all his Relations, and any Body that knew him, being a hundred Miles off; yet he willingly submitted and resigned himself to God. Ignorance of the Law, and want of Consideration, was the Occasion of his falling into this mischievous Adventure.

He to the last behaved well, and to Appearance was a sincere Christian. He declar'd his Faith, of being sav'd by the Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ; that he truly repented of all his Sins, and died in perfect Peace with all Mankind.

The unhappy Person to whom these Pages relate, having had a very indifferent Education, was not so sensible, or at least so early sensible as could have been wished of the Nature of his Crime; but by Degrees, when Matters were explained to him, he was ready enough in acknowledging

that it was very great, and that his Punishment was equitable and just. He complained grievously of some cunning factious People in the Country, who take a Pleasure in misleading their poor illiterate Neighbours into a bad Opinion of the Government and Laws they live under. He said the Methods generally made use of on such Occasions, was to cry out in general Terms on the deadness of Trade, the greatness of Taxes, and the Burthens lying on the Poor, tho' he acknowledged there were no People less ready to compassionate and relieve the Distresses of Others than these very People. Tho' he had been so busy an Opposer of Turnpikes, he could hardly tell on what Account he was so, other than that they took Peoples Money, and a great many Gentlemen were concerned in them, and as angry as he and his Companions were with the Laws relating to these Turnpikes, yet he own that few or none of them knew what was contained in them. He said it would he a good Thing, and add much to the establishing the Peace of the Country he came from, if some way could be found to inform the People better of these Laws, and of the Laws against riotous Assembles, since poor labouring Men of dull Understandings were easily imposed on, and drawn aside by such as pretended to wish them well, and to compassionate their Grievances. He observed that Opposition had encreased their Rage, and seemed to think that if the People had been thoroughly acquainted with the Reasons for which the Turnpike Acts were made, and the insufficiency of the common Methods, for repairing Roads, they would have been well satisfied with them; but he said, he and his Associates were ignorant Men, and had few to talk to them that were either better disposed or better Instructed than themselves, so that the Cue being once given them, that these Turnpikes were grievances, they never troubled themselves afterwards wish any other Consideration, than how to take them down. He insisted, that many People who should know things, had assured him in the Country, that these severe Laws against Riots, had been made but of late Years, particularly the Statute on which he was Condemned, whence they Inferred, that these were hard Times, and that poor People were harshly dealt with. Nor was he a little surprized, when he was told, that the Laws against riotous Assemblies were no less severe two hundred Years ago, and that as to the Act against Persons going disguised, it could not be made till such an Offence happen'd. That going in disguise to do any unlawful Act or to commit any Violence, was in its Nature as great an Offence as killing Deer, which was the Intention of those who were styled Waltham Blacks, on Account of whom this Act was

made. That violences committed by People in disguise, were as much Breaches of the Peace, and as likely to terrify his Majesty's good Subjects in one Country, as in another, and consequently no Persons had just Occasion given them to complain of the Severity of this Law, if they would wilfully commit the Crimes forbid by it, and thereby render themselves liable to the Punishment which it Inflicts.

He was likewise told that his, and his Companions Proceedings were not contrary to one, but to many Acts of Parliament, since the cutting down of Turnpikes as it is an Affront done to the Legislative, and an Attempt made by private Persons to redress a publick Grievance, may very well be construed levying of Arms; the difference between a Riot and an Insurrection, consisting in this, that the former is on a private, and the latter on a publick Account. To all this he still pleaded Ignorance, and that silly Country People were no Judges of Law. He was told that it was their Faults, therefore who meddled with Things they did not understand; that they could not presume the Parliament would make Laws on no Reasons at all, and that allowing themselves to be Ignorant of the Reasons on which such Laws were made, and that they were no competent Judges in case they had known them; it was Madness in them to oppose by force the Execution of such Laws, and thereby expose themselves to sorrow and shame, and their Families to ruin.

It was farther shewn him that want of Understanding could no way alleviate or excuse a Crime of this Nature, since it was evident that every Man who had Sense enough to be angry with the Law, had Sense enough to know that it was his Duty not to attempt abrogating them by Force; besides he was put in mind of the unreasonableness of their proceedings about the Turnpikes, from the Knowledge that all of them had of the terrible badness of the Roads before those Turnpikes were erected, and the many Accidents which happen'd to Passengers and Carriages of all kinds, and at the same Time was told, that the Rates at those Turnpikes were at reasonable as the Nature of the thing would allow, and as any in the Kingdom; on the whole he grew at last easy and resigned, laid aside all those Sentiments of Revenge, which are but too natural in such as are brought to Justice by the Industry of Others.

He own'd that it was highly reasonable for the Gentlemen Insulted in the late Riots, and whose Houses, Estates, and Lives were threatned, to take all the Precautions possible for the rendring those Threatnings vain; he expressed a tender Concern, not only for his Relations, but his Neighbours, especially such as had any Concern in the late Tumults; he said

he hoped his Death would prove a warning to them, and that the Government on their shewing a Disposition to be quiet, would free them from their Fears, by a general Pardon.

As his Death drew near, he grew more composed, and as his Conscience did not affright him with those gloomy Prospects which generally present themselves to People in his Condition; he prepared to meet his Fate, if not with Constancy, yet with Meekness, shewing to the last all the Signs that could possibly be expected, both of a General, and particular Repentance. As to the Accident which happened at his Execution, 'twas indeed very Singular, but not so unaccountable as some People would make it, since such as have but a very superficial Notion of Anotomy, may easily conceive how a Person very soon cut down may shew even strong Signs of Life, and yet be in no Condition to Recover. If this poor Man had fallen into the Hands of Surgeons instead of the Mob, it is very possible that he might have been saved, but amongst such rude Attendants as were about him, there is no wonder to be made that he expired, since the pooring Liquor down his Throat was certainly one of the foolishest Things they could do, next to their omitting Bleeding and Rubbing.

In the Year 1650 one Ann Green , was executed at Oxford , and after hanging the usual Time, her Body was taken away, and being thought to have some Signs of Life in it, such Methods were used as brought her to herself; she lived many Years after, and gave a long distinct Account of what she suffered from the Moment she was turned off; this made such a Noise at the Time, that near forty of the Prime Wits of the University wrote Copies of Latin and English Verses on the Occasion; a circumstantial Account of the whole Affair was printed the next Year in a Quarto Pamphlet of three Sheets and a half, bearing the Title of News from the Dead, in the Revival of Ann Green .

A latter Instance of this sort happened in Scotland, where a Woman was hanged for the Murder of her Bastard Child (which however she constantly denied, both before and after her Execution) was by the Care of her Friends brought to herself some Hours after she had been hang'd, and lived many Years in the Village of Musselburgh, where many People visited her, and gave her Money to hear her Story from her own Mouth.

Such Instances are very rare, and the Causes very difficult to be assigned, and therefore fitter to be left to the Judgement of the Reader, than to be farther insisted on in this Paper.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

HE appear'd very devout and serious, and had no more to add to his Confessions, but that he forgave every body and died in the Faith of Christ.

He was very attentive to Prayers and singing of Psalms, and went off the Stage, crying to God to have Mercy upon him, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

After he was cut down, the Wife of James Baylis , who had bought him a Coffin and Shroud with the Money he gave her the the Day before his Execution, put him into the Coffin, and they digged a Grave nigh to the Place of his Execution, to which the Mob carried him, and as they were putting him into the Grave, a Woman desired a Sight of his Body; the Coffin being opened, he mov'd and Breath'd strongly, and lifted his Hand to his Breast.

The Mob favouring him, least the Officers should take and Execute him again, they carried the Coffin along the Oxford Road , and halting to see how he did, they found him still alive, breathing strongly, his Breast and Belly heaving up, and he often put his Hand to his Breast, but never open'd nor mov'd his Eyes.

A Surgeon drew Blood of him, and he bled freely and plentifully, and vomitted a good deal. They carried him by Paddington , and desired them to take him into their Houses, but nobody would receive him for fear of Trouble. They put Sack and Brandy to his Mouth, and us'd other Means to recover him, and a Man wrap'd him in his Coat to keep him Warm; but they having thrown Water into the Coffin, and he put out of all House and Harbour, after they had carried him out two Miles from Tyburn , they returned towards the Town, but by reason of Cold and other mismanagements, he at last expired, and they dig'd another Grave by the Oxford-Road , and buried him.

The Wife of Baylis who attended and look'd after him all the while, gave this Account of him.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. Sir John Williams , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Baron Comyns; the Hon. Mr. Justice Lee; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London; and others of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday and Thursday the 21st and 22d of July, 1736, and in the Tenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. John Kelsey , Thomas Mills , John Maxworth , alias Parliment Jack, Thomas Rickets , Stephen Philips , Thomas Morrice , and John Pritchard , were found Guilty of capital Crimes, by the Jury, and Sentenc'd to die.

While under Sentence, they having been for the most part illiterate young Men, accustomed to Sin and Wickedness, and unacquainted with Piety and Virtue. I instructed them in the fundamental Principles of Christianity, the Ignorance of which, and want of due Consideration had led them into those wretched Misfortunes, unto which they brought themselves to.

The Crime for which they all suffered, having been Robbery and Theft; I represented to them, that these Acts of Injustice, make Men odious to God, unfit for humane Society, and betray the Actors to the greatest Mischiefs, even in this World, Death itself being by Law appointed the Reward of it; and there are few that follow this Trade long, but at last with the same Fate.

Upon Friday the 6th of August, Report was made to her Majesty in Council, of the seven Malefactors under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate; when Thomas Morrice , John Pritchard , and Thomas Rickets , received her Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve: The other four viz. Thomas Mills , John Maxworth , alias Paddy , alias Parliament Jack, John Kelsey , and Stephen Philips , were ordered for Execution.

Thomas Mills , was Indicted for stealing a Black Mare, value 8 l. the Property of Win. Thatcher , October 28, 1735.

1. Thomas Mills , 50 Years of Age, of mean Parents, in Berkshire , who gave him little Education, when of Age, he was not put to a Trade, but his Father kept him at his own Business of a Husbandman , and he liv'd for some Time in Berkshire , where he was Born, serving Farmers: Afterwards thinking to mend his State, he came to Middlesex , and did Country-Work for many Years; he married a Wife, by whom the had several Children, and lived at Hanwell , and there his Wife and three Children are now living; for some Years past, he was a Higglery , and sold Eggs and Chickens, and other small Things in the Country, and in that way he got an Honest Livelihood for his Family, and kept an indifferent good House, for one of his Station, and the Neighbourhood entertain'd no ill Opinion of him: though his Honesty had been suspected in some Families where he serv'd before.

As to the stealing the Horses, for which he was Indicted, Convicted and died, the Account he gave was to this Effect.

He said, he never dealt in Horses till of late, on Thomas Giles , a Berkshire Man at

different Times sold him fourteen Horses, for nine of which he was indicted, and these Horses he sold to different Persons about the Town and Country; but they having been all, or mostly carried out of Berkshire , the Owners advertised and found them out; and Thomas Hains swore that he bought the Horse of Thomas Mills as Francis Wright did of Hains.

Mills, who had nothing to say in his Defence, but that he bought it of Thomas Giles , who, altho' he was taken up, yet, for want of Proof, was discharged; and Hains he call'd his Confederate. He was very ignorant of Religion, but was attentive to Prayers and Instructions, and behaved with a deal of Humility and apparent Seriousness, weeping and lamenting for his Wife and poor Children; alledging, that he was a good Husband and indulgent Father. On Monday the second of August, a thick Piece of Iron a Foot and an Half long was found under his Bed, with two thin crooked Irons like the Ribs of a Grate; these one of the Persons belonging to Newgate found out while they were at Prayers. He said he found them in the Cell, which was entirely false, and with them he was endeavouring to make an Entry into the Passage, which would have been of no avail, that being the strongest Place, and built up of Free Stone within.

While he was a Servant to Mr. Payne, a Farmer at Brentford , Corn and Wheat were stolen, and above a Bushel of Wheat was found in a Sack concealed in the Field: He was suspected by his Master and the Family, but denied that he knew any thing of the Matter; and said, four Threshers belonging to the Barns, who might be all equally suspected. Upon this he was put out of his Service, and there was no more Words of it. He was not willing to confess much where Proof was wanting. He said, that in the Course of his Life he was for the most part honest and industrious. He declared his Faith in Christ, through whose Merits only he hoped for Salvation: that he repented truly of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

John Maxworth , alias Puddy , alias Parliament Jack, was inted for breaking and entering the House of Nathanael Blackerby , Esq ; on the 19th of June last, about Three in the Morning, and stealing two Silver-handled Knives and Forks, one large Silver Spoon, two Tea Spoons, two Silk Handkerchiefs, and a Cambrick Stock.

He was a second time indicted for stealing a Silver Snuff-Box, value 30 s. a Tortoise-shell Snuff-Box with Silver Rims, value 42 s. and nine Pair of Silver Buckles, value 3 l. the Goods of William Deards .

Upon the first Indictment, he was tried and found guilty. Death.

2. John Maxworth , alias Puddy , alias Parliament Jack, Twenty-four Years of Age, of honest Parents, who did not give him much Education, being only in mean Circumstances; and what little he got he misimproved to the worst of Purposes, having little or no Knowledge of Religion, to which his Inclinations were averse, and bent another Way. His Father was a Wool-comber, and kept his Family pretty well; but he dying, left his Son John young, about 11 or 12 Years of Age; who with the other Children, not having much to expect of the Mother, left her to shift for themselves. John cross'd the Water and came to Westminster , where he hath resided ever since; never enquiring after one of his Father's Family since his Death, 12 or 13 Years ago, tho' there are two of his Sisters married in Town, of whom he know nothing of. He generally apply'd in Westminster-Hall , and served several Shop-keepers in the said Hall, going on Errands, and carrying Things for them; and was sometimes entrusted with Money, which he very honestly gave an Account of; tho' at last he betook to pilfering and stealing, which he did not give over 'till it brought him to his fatal End He married a Wife, and she being altogether naughty, they parted; but John had two or three others, who, without any Ceremony, attended him, and were his Advisers and Assisters in his villainous Doings, particularly a young Woman, whom he called Elizabeth Coltman , never failed to advise

and assist him in his most unaccountable Undertakings. Of late, tho' formerly he had kept his Credit with his Customers who employ'd him to do any little thing for them indifferently well, he turn'd dishonest, and pick'd and stole whatever he could lay his Hands upon. Justice Blackerby's House being robb'd of some Plate, and other Things, they suspected Maxworth, whom the Servants used to bring in to do some little Things for them; and they knowing him to be acquainted with the Situation and different Entries of the House, caused him to be taken up upon Suspicion. He was carried before Justice Farewell, before whom he confess'd, that on the 19th of June he got on a Shed in Cotton's-Ground , and from thence into the Yard of Mr. Blackerby's House, and going into the Kitchen, which he opened by turning the brass Knob of the Lock, and from thence he took away a large Silver Spoon, with the Gentleman's Crest upon it; and in the Parlour he took a Cane with a Pinchbeck's Head. He unlock'd the Study Door, between the Parlour and the Kitchen, and from thence he took two Tea Spoons; that the Knives and Forks were taken out of the Kitchen; and from the Laundry he took two Silk Handkerchiefs and a Stock: All these Things he deliver'd to Elizabeth Coltman , who advised him to commit the Robbery, and sold all off, as she did upon all other Occasions, whensoever he had stolen Goods to be dispos'd on. All these Confessions he voluntarily and more fully than what is here related, after they had been read over to him, signed before the Justice. The Cane they sold to a Broker in Rag-Fair for a Shilling. He acknowledged, that for some Years past he was a notorious Thief and Robber, having broken several Houses, frequently been guilty of Shop-lifting, picking Pockets, and carrying of every thing that lay in his Way. On Sunday the first of August, Mr. Alston going in the Evening to visit the Prisoners in the Cells, heard a Noise in Maxworth's Cell, which was in the uppermost Row, and going in, he found Maxworth (having no Instruments they could discover but two Tenpenny Nails in his Shirt) about Eight at Night, standing upon a Table or Stool, working hard in digging a Hole in the Root of the Cells; he had made some Impression, and begun to make a little Hole, but was prevented; and for his so doing an additional Iron was put on, which kept his Legs asunder, o that he could not rise or move. Next Mornsng, as they were coming to Prayers, he was carried down upon a Man's Back, and the Iron between is Legs taken off; and he was admonished not to do so any more, if he did, he should be used after another manner. He own'd that he was profoundly wicked in Whoring, Drinking, Cursing, Swearing and Blaspheming, Stealing and Robbing, and in keeping the basest of Company, both of Men and Women, and that he was utterly ruin'd and undone by following the Advice and Company of lewd Women, the chief of whom was Elizabeth Coltman . He cried and wept plentifully when put in remembrance of his Sins and wicked Living, and declared his great Grief for his scandalous and infamous Life, and that his Sufferings were most deserving. He was very ignorant; I endeavoured to instruct him according to his Capacity, and as the Brevity of Time would allow. He declared his Faith in Christ; and that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, dying in Peace with all Mankind.

Stephen Philips , of Fulham , was indicted for stealing a Mare of an iron-grey Colour, value 6 l. the Goods of Thomas Millet , July 6.

3. Stephen Phillips was born at a Place call'd Farnham , in the County of Surrey , aged eighteen Years, of honest Parents; he said his Grandfather kept the Bull-Inn in Farnham upwards of 30 Years. When he arrived to eight Years of Age, he went to live with one Mrs. Picket, whose Son was a Fisherman at Farnham, and frequently brought Fish to Town, particularly to one Mr. Lane, the King's Fishmonger by Hungerford-Market, 'till within this Twelve-month last past. His Robberies he related in the following Terms: My Mistresses Son and I being drinking at the Three-Horse-shoes at Weybourn , within a Mile

of Farnham , he proposed to take a Horse out of a Field belonging to one Mr. Batchelor, which accordingly we did. After we took this Horse we went for Exeter , and there we swapt the Horse for about 3 or 4 l. From thence we went to Wellington in Somersetshire , where we overtook a young Woman coming from Market (being the very first Fact that I ever committed with my young Master) and took from her about 12 s. and 6 d. she begg'd of us that we would not use her ill; we told her we wou'd not: She went one Way and we went another, which was to the City of Worcester , and there my young Master Picket left me; after he had left me, I went to a Place called Ross , in Herefordshire , where I hired my self a Servant to one Mr. Cottrel, a Dealer in Pigs: I continued with him four or five Months, from thence I came up with Goods for the Use of my Master to Eaton-Fair , by Windsor ; my Master selling his Goods to one Mr. Atkins, at Guildford in Surey , I went home with them, and there by Accident I met with my young Master Picket, who asked me if I would turn but with him again, which I too readily, to my Misfortune, consented to. From Guildford we went to a Place called Chichester in Sussex , where we staid about seven Days, and then came back to a Place call'd Singleton , where we took a grey Mare belonging to a Gentleman there, out of his Stable in the Yard. After this, we went to Midhurst in the same County, there we took a black Mare out of a Farmer's Stable; being both well mounted, we agreed to go to Odiham-Fair in Hampshire , and staid there one Night; and finding there was no Opportunity of doing any thing, we made the best of our Way to Hounslow-Heath , to attack either Man or Coach, the first we met with, which happened to be a Chariot and Four, with two Ladies in it, and took from them about 17 s. and 6 d. in Money, and a Book.

After we had committed this Robbery, we went to a Place called Alsford , in Hampshire where we robbed the Southampton Stage-Coach, with four Passengers in it, from whom we took about four Guineas and a Half, and a Silver Watch. After this we returned to Farnham , where I, my Master Thomas Picket , and one Thomas Hack , met Farmer Green, who lives at Bently in Hampshire, whom he robb'd, and took from him 2 or 3 l. After this Robbery, Hack, Thomas Picket , and myself, went to one Thomas Hunts , of Frimley , where Hack and Thomas Picket agreed to go to Alton in Hampshire , (the leaving the behind at Hunt's House) where they robb'd one Farmer Butt, and took from him one Guinea and a Half, two Keys, a Seal, an Ivory-handle Knife and Fork; after they had committed this Robbery, they returned back to me again, where Hack parted with us.

After this Picket and I went to Hounslow-Heath , and there we robb'd a Gentleman in a Chaise, of two Guineas and some Silver.

A Day or two after this, we robb'd a Gentleman and his Lady in the same Place of two Guineas, and 8 s. and 6 d. after this Robbery we went to Bow , where, between Bow and Stratford we stopp'd a Gentleman on Horseback, by taking hold of his Horse's Bridle, and him stand; upon which the Gentleman fell whipping of Thomas Picket , several Blows being given of each Side; at last Picket jump'd his Horse and pull'd the Gentleman off, and he fell on him; the Gentleman said, I can do no more, I am at your Mercy, and I hope you will not use me ill; they said they took from the Gentleman between 4 and 5 l. and a Silver, Watch, and then rode of.

After this Robbery we went to Lidd near Romney in Kent , and coming from thence to Chatham , we met with the Gravesend Coach, and took out of a Hamper behind the Coach 25 Guineas, a Moidore, and a 36 s. Piece.

A little while after we went to Hindhead , where we met with our Companion Hack, and asked him if he would again turn out with us; he very readily comply'd, and we had not gone far from Hindhead before we met a Gentleman on Horseback, and his Servant, from whom we took, that is, from his Servant, a Portmantua, and carried it into the Fields, a little Way of the Road, where we search'd it and found therein 150 Guineas in Gold, and some wearing Apparel, which we divided amongst us.

After this Robbery I and Picket returned to London , our Horses being tir'd, we left one at the Star-Inn , by Hungerford-Market , the other we left at one John Wheatly's.

Having no Horses we took each of us one out of the Grounds between Kensington and Hammersmith , and rode to Hounslow-Heath , where we stopt a Chariot and Four with two Ladies in it, when we came to the Chariot side, we bid the Ladies be under no Apprehension of Danger, nor be any ways affrighted, for we wou'd do them no Harm: It was only their Money and Watches we wanted; upon which one of the Ladies having more Courage than the rest, said, Gentlemen, you get your Money very hard, and here is what I have for you, which is a Guinea and a half, and I wish I had a Guinea or two more for you, it should be at your Service; we pull'd off our Hats and wish'd the Ladies well to Town.

After we had committed this Robbery, we went to Farnham , and there we had our Horses shod, having left one of our Horses at a Place call'd Ricklesome , I was obliged to get up behind Picket, till we came to Fruntsam , where I took a Bay-Horse out of Esq; Bishop's Yard, and came directly to Kingston upon Thames , and put up at the Bear-Inn there, where we staid one Night. In the Morning Picket got up and came for London , and Pawn'd a Watch for 25 s. and returned to me the same Day, and gave me part of the Money.

From Kingston , we made the best of our way for Hounslow-Heath , where we met a young Woman on Foot, we ask'd her where she was going, she said, she was going to see her Mother who had the Misfortune to break her Leg; we said, we are going the same Way and we should be glad of her Company; she very civilly reply'd, I am very glad of it, for I should have been afraid to go over the Heath by myself, for I am told, it is a mighty Place for Robbing; replyed we, so they say it is; we had not gone far, before we came to a convenient Place for our Purpose; accordingly Picket said to her, I don't doubt but you are just come from Service, and receiv'd your Wages, therefore you must give me your Money immediately; the young Woman was in a great Surprize, and when she recovered herself, said, I hope you are not in Earnest. Picket swore, if she did not immediately deliver what she had, he would shoot her through the Head; accordingly she gave him 2 s. 6 d. a Silver Snuff-Box, and two Silver Tea-Spoons; after he had got what he could, he swore he must now lay with her, upon which the poor young Woman fell on her Knees, cry'd and entreated him to forbear his barbarous Intention; but he was deaf to all her Intreaties, and had his Beastly Will of the poor young Woman; this Phillips said, gave him more uneasiness than all his Robberies, for letting the young Woman be us'd after so barbarous a Manner.

Having some Words with Picket about the young Woman, we parted, and I went to a Place call'd Lidd , in Kent , and went to a Publick-House, kept by one Thomas Cox 's; being at Nine-Pinns with some Company that was there a Drinking, in comes my Comrade Picket (and was in a Passion with me, what Reason he had I know not) and ask'd me if I would not go out with him; I told him, if the Horses was ready I would go; on that he immediately goes up Stairs and charges his 2 Pistols; then we mounted our Horses and had rode together about five Miles, and as we rode along, he frequently look'd into the Ditches, and putting his Hand in his Pocket, took out one of his Pistols, and pull'd a Pin off of his Sleeve to clear the Touch-Hole of his Pistol, with that, his Pistol accidently went off. I hearing of that, I wondered what was the Matter; he put his Hand in the other Pocket

and pull'd out another, and turn'd his Horse about and came to the Head of my Horse, and said, You Dog don't you deserve these Balls through your Head; immediately he got off of his Horse, and laid himself along a Bank; I went to him, and asked him what I had done, that he us'd me after this Manner; and he told me, that he came out with an intent to Murder me, and look'd in the Ditch for a convenient Place to throw me into; I desired him not to shoot me on Horseback, but give me leave to get off of my Horse, which he let me do; he again laid himself down on the Bank, and put his Pistol in his Pocket, he had not laid long, before he got on Horseback, and rides away with my Horse; in about half an Hour he returns back, and gave me my Horse, and desired me not to put him in a Passion any more; If I did, he wou'd shoot me thro' the Head; being reconciled, we both return'd to Cox's House at Lidd , where we turn'd our Horses to Grass, and staid sometime in the Town. From Lidd , we went into Sussex , and near a Place called Bourn , we took a Couple of Horses, and made the best of our Way for London , and came to the White-Horse in Blackman-Street , Southwark , and there put up our Horses; I had not been there long, before I had occasion to borrow half a Guinea of my Landlord, and cross'd the Water to the Star-Inn by Hungerford , to see for Picket, but Mr. Dutton inform'd me that he was not there; presently after I was gone, he came, and enquir'd of Mr. Dutton, for me, and he told him I was just gone; upon which he was in a Passion, and swore if I had been there, he came with an Intent to shoot me through the Head.

The next Morning he took both the Horses, and went away from me, and I did not meet with him for some Days; but as I was going between Hammersmith and Brentford , I met him with a Mare, which he had stole from Hammersmith , when he desir'd me to take the Mare and carry her to London , and put her up at the Barley-Mow , going to Deptford ; and at the said House, I broke open a Box that was in the Room, where I laid, and took out of it two Pounds in Money, and a Silver Watch. After I had committed this Robbery, I took the Mare and carried her to the Pewter-Platter , in St. John's-Street , and from thence I went to one W - m B - ts, having been often at his House, and spent the Money which I took out of the Box; having spent the Money, I desired his Wife to pawn the Watch which I took, which she did for a Guinea and a Half; after that, her Husband ask'd me if I would go along with him to Kentish-Town Horse Races, which I did, and return'd to his House again.

The next Day I went again to his House, and was taken and committed to New-Prison , for breaking open the Box at the Barley-Mow , and taken out the above-mention'd Money and Watch. He said that the above Person encouraged him to go a Robbing, and always received whatever Things I brought, though he knew them to be stolen.

The Sunday before he died, his Wife and Mother-in-law came to see him, they wept very much, to see what he had brought himself too, and said, if he had taken their Advice, he had never been under this unhappy Misfortune. The next Day being Monday, he own'd that he and Picket, had committed the Robberies which is above related.

He hop'd God of his infinite Goodness, would have Mercy on his poor Soul, and that he died in Charity with all the World; he beg'd Pardon of all whom he had any ways injur'd, and wish'd it was in his Power to make Restitution to those whom he had Robb'd.

4. John Kelsey was indicted for assaulting William Winston on the King's Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him one Guinea, June 30.

THIS is to certify the World, That I John Kelsey , 24 Years of Age, now under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate , do by this said Writing from under my own Hand, declare the following Part to be actually true; and then intent of my so doing, as I am to die, is to inform the World after what manner I was unhappily driven to this most shameful and ignominious Death, which I am in a short time to suffer, and give an Account for to a just God.

I was born in the Town of Greenwich , of very reputable Parents; my Father lived in a genteel Manner. I was tenderly brought up in the Fear of God, and in the Christian Religion. I was put to the best of Schools that could be found, and when I was capable of reading tolerably, I was put to a Latin Boarding-School, where I continued three Years, 'till the Death of my Father: Then I was taken home, and continued at other Schools 'till I arrived to a tollerable Competency of Learning, in Writing, Arithmetick, and Latin, so far as to undertake any Business within a common Sphere of Life. At the Age of about 17, I was put Apprentice to a Surgeon , whom I served to the best of my Knowledge, and endeavouring as much as in me lay, to give Satisfaction, both as to my Business, and likewise in the Family; but by Reason of some Misunderstanding between me and my Master, in the pristine part of my Apprenticeship, I and my Master could not agree; likewise his putting me in Bridewell twice (for Irregularities which I had committed) which entirely deprived me of that most excellent Part of Life, my Character, which should have been the chief Dependance for one of my Profession; being confined there, I had many bad Notions instill'd into me, which I was utterly a Stranger to before, and which has been in some Measure a helping Part to my present doleful Circumstance.

After I had served upwards of four Years, I went away from my Master, and my Friends got me on board one of the King's Ships to serve as Surgeon's Mate , in which Place I behaved myself so well, that I had both the Esteem of the Officers, and the whole Ship's Company; was always subject and mindful of Command from my superior Officers. I discharged my Duty towards the Foremast Men very justly, to the best of my Ability. I was discharged from the said Ship Lancaster, Capt. Coleman, when the other Ships were paid, being on the 10th of January last. I came home, and in Space of a Week, or thereabouts, I went again to my Master; he agreed I should go again when I could get a Ship, which I endeavoured with the help of my former Friends, but could not, there being no Vacancy; and Things not happening according to Expectation, I lead a very uneasy Life, and was threatned with worse Consequences in a short Time, which obliged me to leave my Service the Week before Whitsuntide, since which Time I lived by my Practice; but it not being a sufficient Maintenance for me, I unhappily fell into the Company of those two profligate vicious Fellows (that robb'd the Cirencester Stage Coach with me) who had made me a most oppribious Sacrifice to the Law, to suffer an igniminious Death, as I am doom'd to do; and to leave behind me a most desolate, distracted Family, who often beg'd of me to avoid such Company as might be my overthrow: But I not having the Grace of God before my Eyes, gave way to my own Lusts, before the good Admonitions of my Relations and Friends.

The first time of my Acquaintance with one of those Persons (namely, Edward Rigby ) he belonging to the same Ship as myself; the other was one Cooper, whom I never saw 'till I was brought into his Company by the aforesaid Rigby; and from the first beginning to the last, when I was taken, was not above three Weeks; so that my Life is lost, and I cut off in my Bloom, for a momentary Pleasure.

The Robberies committed by us being so few, that I think it proper to let the World know them all, because otherways it may be thought I had been an old Offender (altho' a

young Man). The first was done upon the Burry Stage Coach, from whom we took the value of 30 s. or thereabouts, from two Gentlewomen. The next was on the Salisbury Stage Coach, from whom we took but Half a Crown from one Passenger, the Road being so full of People passing to and fro, that it would not permit staying The other for which I died, was on the Cirencester Stage Coach, from whom we took two Guineas, and 5 s. 6 d. and Two-penny worth of Halfpence; one of the Guineas I put into my Shoe. This very Coach Phillips and Picket (the former my Fellow-sufferer) waited to rob, and said, he saw me taken after the Robbery was committed; this he confess'd to me, since his being under Sentence.

The abovesaid Rigby proposed to me to rob Sir John Shaw at Eltham in Kent , and his Lady, as they were coming from the Assembly at Eltham; but losing one of our Company, we thought it not safe to attempt it, by Reason he told us the Servants were very resolute Persons, so that I drop'd it. After we had been concerned in the first Robbery, I was deeply struck with Confusion for what I had done, knowing it Death by the Law when taken: I therefore took this said Edward Rigby to task, and, as far as my Ability would allow, told him the direful Consequences that one time or other would attend such irregular Proceedings. My Talk was to no Effect; for he told me, if I did not proceed with him, he would impeach me; so that having begun, I was obliged by his Laws to make an End.

I beg the World no to censure on what I have here said concerning my Master; or that I die in Malice with any one Person in the World; for I declare to God, I freely forgive every Body, both Friends and Foes; and that on the contrary I do believe, and am thoroughly satisfied, that my Master is a very honest Man, and a good Provider for his Family, and one who takes abundance of Pains to live in the World, and bears the best of Characters in the Neighbourhood: And I do, and am firmly satisfy'd, he has done the best of his Endeavours to relieve me in this my great Trouble: But neither his Interest, nor my own Friends, is able to redeem me from my Sufferings in this World. All I have to say is, that we never could, not did agree, even from the first Year of my Time; I won't mention any Particulars of any sort. I must acknowledge, and do Justice to my Master, it was chiefly owing to my irregular Way of Living

I was told by the Clergy who came to visit me in my Trouble, that what I had to reveal to the World of any Consequence, if I did not do it, it would be a very great Sin committed both to God and Man; and on the contrary, to declare what I thought would be of Service; the Laws of God obliged me to do it, because it would be of Service to the World, and likewise an Acknowledgment to God of my Sins, and might give a Turn to other Persons who might probably be reclaimed by reading of this, that otherwise might have gone the same Way

Let me therefore persuade all Persons, both young and old, to let this my unhappy Chance of Life be an Example to all those who shall ever read this Paper; and let them beg for the Grace of God, that he may have a watchful Eye over all their Actions; and let them be drove to never so great a Necessty, let them content themselves with Bread and Water in an honest Way, whereby they may enjoy the limitted Light of this World, rather than to follow irregular Courses, whereby their Days are shortened, and they cut off in the midst of their Sins, which must unavoidably d-n their precious Souls in a future State, without the over-abounding Mercies of God, by the Intercession of our blessed Saviour and Redeemer Jesus Christ, who was sent into the World on purpose to have his Body exposed to Ignominy and Shame, and his precious Blood spilt, whereby our Sins may be purged and purified, to be able to stand the Great Day of Judgment, without having either Blot or Blemish. God has given us time to repent, and I hope I have employed it to the best Advantage, having done my Endeavour, so that I die in the Christian Religion, believed to be saved through the Merits and Mediation

of our Blessed Saviour Christ Jesus our Lord; freely forgiving all Mankind, as I hope for Forgiveness from God. I truly repent me of all my Sins, and I die in Love, Unity and Charity with all Men.

Cells in Newgate , Aug. 10, 1736.

JOHN KELSEY .

The following LETTER was given to a Friend, the Night before his Execution.

DEAR MOTHER.

'TIS my Duty to employ some of my last Moments in beseeching your Pardon, for the ill Use I have made of all the Tenderness and Care as you have shewn towards me, for the Grief and Sorrow which I have brought upon you, through the Errors of an ill spent Life; and now at last by a shameful Death, which is alas! not more Shameful, than it is just. I hope God is the sole Refuge of the Distressed, will enable you to bear this great Trial, as becomes a Christian, and will also asswage the Grief of my Relations. I Beseech you all to believe that I carry to the last Moment of my Life, a just Sense of the Regards you had for me, and that however I may have lived without Duty, and without Thought.

I am, Dearest Mother, Your most Dutiful, as well as afflicted Son,

JOHN KELSEY .

The following Speech was intended to be spoken by JOHN KELSEY , the Surgeon , at the Place of Execution; but being shock'd at the Sight of the fatal Place where he was to make his Exit, he could not.

GOOD PEOPLE,

' MY Follies have brought me ' hither, and it is to be wished that my Example may deter others from coming to the same ' Place. Loose Company and bad ' Women have been the Source of my ' Misfortunes, as they have been of ' many others, who have before me ' trod the same shameful Path. The ' Numbers that are here present ' ought to have something else in ' View, than being merely Witnesses ' of our unhappy Ends; they should ' seek their own Good, and that they ' can do no other way, than by giving ' Attention to what we say in the ' last Moments of our Lives, when ' our Passions hinder us not from per

ceiving, and when we can have no ' Interest to serve by hiding the ' Truth.

' If it were possible for young ' Men to conceive in any Degree the ' Agonies we feel, if they could ' have any Taste of those exquisite ' Afflictions which we suffer, they ' would unbitter all those Pleasures ' of which they are now so fond, and ' and the Day that finishes our Lives, ' would give date to their Repentance.

' Parents are at great Pains in educating, and at no small Expence in ' putting young People into a Road ' of Business; happy would it be ' for them, if they would consider this, ' and out of a Sense of Gratitude, attend to those Employments, their ' own Choice, and the Care of their ' Friends designed them: Happy ' would it have been for me, if I ' had thought thus in Time, and gained Wisdom from the Sufferings of ' others, instead of running into such ' Evils, as have made me a Spectacle ' myself.

' But these Reflections come too ' late, Death is about to cut short a ' mispent Life, and I have no Hopes ' but what arise from a short Repentance, the Contemplation of God's ' Mercy, and my Saviour's Merits. ' I leave Relations behind me, it ' would sure be needless to intreat ' that none would reflect on them for ' the Effects of my Crimes; such as ' are capable of so base a Thought, ' would be little moved by Intreaties, and the Generality of Mankind will, I hope, believe my Faults ' expiated by my Death.

' I have nothing more to add, than ' that I did not commit the Fact for ' which I die alone; those who were ' the Companions of my Sin, and ' who have been so happy as to avoid ' being Parties of my Shame, will, I ' hope be particularly warned by my ' suffering, and their own Danger: ' I pray for them with my last ' Breath, as I do for all Mankind; ' forgiving, as I hope to be forgiven, ' for the sake of Jesus Christ, to ' whom I recommend my departing ' Soul.

' JOHN KELSEY .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Morning of their Execution I read Prayers to them, where they appeared very serious and devout; after I had done praying by them, they came down and had their Irons knock'd off in the Press Yard; from thence Kelsey the Surgeon , and Phillips the Highway man was put in one Cart; (but just before Kelsey went out of the Press Yard, he called to a Gentleman to give his kind Love to his Master) Maxworth and Mills in the other, between Eight and Nine of the Clock, and carried to Tyburn ; when they came to the Place of Execution, they all appeared very serious and devout. John Kelsey had no more to add to his Confessions, only he hoped that the World would not impute his Misfortunes to his most dear and best of Mothers, nor to any other Relation. The other three forgave every Body, and hoped God would forgive them. They were all very serious at Prayers and singing of Psalms, and went off the Stage praying to God to have Mercy upon them, and Lord Jesus receive our Spirits.

This is all the Account given By Me,

JAMES GUTHRIE .

Ordinary and Chaplain Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENT.

This Day is publish'd, In Two Volumes in Octavo, Price fourteen Shillings.

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Time; chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. These Trials, &c. are not to be met with in any other Collection.

These two Volumes contain the Trials of Hawkins and Sympson for robbing the Bristol Mail, with an Account of all their Robberies; of Spiggot the famous Highwayman that bore 350 Ib. Weight on his Breast; of Butler, Barton, Fox, Hawes, Wright, Colthouse, Drury, Warwick, Yates, Armstrong, Beck, Edwards, and many others, all famous Highwaymen, and Street-Robbers; of Arthur Grey the famous Footman for Burglary, with an Intent to ravish Mrs. Murray, of Dr. Kraaft, Pritchard, Simmonds, Cook, Ellis, and many others for Rapes, all very entertaining; of Capt. Stanley, for the Murder of his Whore, of Brinsdon, Crony, Nichols, Mac-Gennis, Luttere, the famous Nanny Butler, Vaughan and Cholly (two Constables) Forster Snow , and many others for Murder; also Major Oneby, for the Murder of Mr. Gower, with Life; or Vezey and Hallam, for the Murder of their Wives; of Ricard Savage , Esq ; for Murder, with his Life; Capt. Jane for Murder, Edward Strafford , Esq ; and many others; of Sally Salisbury , for an Attempt to stab the Hon. J- F-, Esq; of Sir Charles Burton , Bart . for Felony; of Duffus, Gabriel Lawrence , and a great many others, for Sodomy shewing all the Tricks and Methods used by the Mollies; of Squire Day alias Davenport for a Cheat, and several others for Bilking their Lodgings; of two German Counts for forging a Bank Note; of Johnathan Wild for several Felonies, with several Particulars of his Life, never before published; of Mrs. Gregory, for marrying Squire Cockeril, nder pretence of being a great Fortune; of the infamous Catherine Hays , who murder'd her Husband, and lay with another Man the same Night; of Mrs. Sherman, for giving Poison to Mr. Chevet; of Vevers the Bricklayer, on all his Indictments; of Mary Hendron , for marrying Miss Morris to an Irishman against her Consent; of blind Cowper and Harpham, and others for Coining; of Russel for a Misdemeanour, for endeavouring to carry away Mrs. Benson; of William Hales , Esq ; and Parson Kinnersley for Forgery; of Atkinson for the Murder of his Mother at Charing-Cross; with a great Number of diverting Tryals of Whore for robbing those that pick'd them up; and several other remarkable ones, for the Highway, Raps, Murder, Burglaries, &c.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trials; among which are upwards of seventy Tryals for Murder, near Sixty of Whores for Private stealing, upwards of one Hundred for the Highway, about Thirty for Rapes; the rest being for Frauds Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy Bigamy, Shop-lifting, Riots Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single Felonies &c. &c. &c.

Sold by J. Roberts, in Warwick-Lane, and by the Booksellers and Phamphlet-Shops in Town.

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the in profetions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining the Generality of Readers; and every Number contains more in Quantity, and is cheaper than any thing ever publish'd this Way.

These Trials, which make 26 Numbers, were published once a Fortnight; and such Persons as want any Numbers to compleat their Setts, are desired to for them very speedily, or it will be impossible ever complete them.

