THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the FOUR MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the 13th of JANUARY, 1752.

BEING THE Second EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Honble Thomas Winterbottom , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

NUMBER II. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LII.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable THOMAS WINTERBOTTOM , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Honourable Sir THOMAS DENNISON , Knt. the Hon. Sir THOMAS BIRCH , Knt. RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER of the City of London, and Justices of Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City, and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall, in the Old Bailey, on Wednesday the 4th, Thursday the 5th, Friday the 6th, and Saturday the 7th of December, 1751, in the Twenty-fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign, WILLIAM DICKENSON , JOHN MACNAMAR , RUSSEL PARNEL , WILLIAM HUGHES , and RACHAEL BEACHAM , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

Their Behaviour under Sentence of Death was tolerably decent, and their Attendance at Prayers in Chappel constant, where they appeared with Seriousness and Devotion, during Divine Service.

On Wednesday the 8th Instant, the Report of the Five Malefactors was, by Richard Adams , Esq ; Recorder , made

to his Majesty in Council; when he was pleased to order the four following, viz. William Dickenson , John Macnamar , Russel Parnel , and Rachael Beacham , for Execution, on Monday, the 13th Instant. William Hughes was respited, in Consideration of being transported for Life

1. John Macnamar , was indicted, for that he, on the second of November, about the Hour of one in the Night, the Dwelling-house of Isaac Buckee did break and enter, and steal 2 silver Watches, value 4 l. 5 Gold Rings, value 2 l. 10 s. 7 Silver Spoons, value 15 s. 5 Silver Thimbles, 2 Silver Stock Buckles, 4 Pair of Silver Sleeve Buttons with Stones, 2 Stay Buckles, with Bristol Stones, 2 Shirts, 2 Pair of Sleeves, 3 Pair of Stockings, 3 Woollen Aprons, 1 White Apron, 8 Handkerchiefs, Silk and Cotton, a wooden Drawer, and other Things; and 30 s. in Halfpence

2. Russel Parnel , was indicted for putting Joseph Charles Lyre in Bodily Fear, and robbing him on the King's Highway, of a Pinchbeck Metal Watch, value 15 s. 1 Pocket Piece, 1 Guinea, and 16 s. in Monies numbered.

3. Rachael Beacham , Wife of Joseph Beacham , was indicted for the Murder of Henrietta Dawes , Spinster , Oct. 25th. She also stood charged on the Coroner's Inquisition for the said Murder.

4. William Dickenson , was indicted for stealing 4 Linnen Bags, value 4 d. 1 3 l. 12 s. Piece, 586 s. Pieces, 1 Moidore, 25 Guineas, 2 5 s. 3 d. and 9 l. 6 s. in Monies numbered, the Property of John Knowles , out of his Dwelling-house, Nov. 13th.

RACHAEL BEACHAM , aged 47, was born in the Town of Hull , in Yorkshire , and brought up to London very young, even while hanging on her Mother's Breast. She seemed a poor ignorant Wretch, had no Education, living with her Parents in Shoreditch till they died, and was bred to the Business of winding Silk for the Throwsters . This was the Way, as she says, whereby she always got her Living; but that having been married 27 Years, she has had several Children by her Husband, and that their joint Industry maintained their Family in a tolerable decent Manner. She rented Part of a House , in which she also lodged the Mother of the poor Infant that was

destroyed, and she says, they always lived quietly together. She was a sober, pains-taking Woman, and was as well respected among the Neighbours, as a Woman in her Station of Life could be expected to be, till this horrid Affair happened.

She says, that about six Weeks before this Violence was done to the Life of this poor unhappy Infant, she had laboured under a violent Fever, which raged upon her for about three Weeks, or more, which Nature, by God's Permission, got the better of, very little assisted by Art or Physick. The Dregs of this Disorder, 'tis reasonable therefore to believe had left a Sort of Delirium, or Melancholy upon her. And she constantly affirmed, that from that Time she was always in a Hurry, and Confusion of Spirits, and could have no rest Day nor Night. She seldom shut her Eyes to sleep, or if she did, was disturbed and attended with Starts and Fears. She was continually running up and down Stairs, and could never set down long to Business, her Spirits being continually agitated and flurried, but by what Means, she could give no Account. She said, moreover, she had been several Times tempted to lay violent Hands on herself, at other Times on her own Children; of this she acquainted her Husband, but he took no farther notice of it, than to say, she was whimsical or magotty; but never took any Pains to consider, or find out what might be the Occasion of her disordered Senses. She declares, as a dying Woman, now sensible of the Heinousness of her Crime, that she could not charge herself with having ever before injured Man, Woman, or Child, that she was heartily sorry for what she had now done, and hoped her Suffering would be a Terror to all others, and be a Means of warning for the future against the Commission of any such horrid and barbarous Act.

She says she owed no Ill-will to the Mother, nor yet to the Child, that they had always lived very quietly in the House, without Quarrels, Words, or Blows. Immediately after Conviction, the Woman appeared for some Time stupid and senseless, she scarce took Notice of any Thing said or done; yet went backwards and forwards to Chappel, as the others did, tho' it was with great Difficulty she got up and down Stairs. In about a Fortnight after, she was quite drooping, and kept her Cell for a Week or ten Days, with a violent Disorder and Delirium, so that scarce any one that saw her, believed she would live to be executed. However, about a Fortnight ago, she began to come about again, and has appeared more livelyand sensible, than she had done since Conviction. During which Time, she has been frequently interrogated. As to the Affair, she was always in the same Way of declaring, that indeed she had done the Fact, but that she never thought of hurting poor Henny till a Day or two before she murdered her.

The Fact she speaks of in this Manner; That having been, as related above, in continual Hurry of Spirits, she had often thought in that Time, to murder the Child, but never attempted it till the third Day, when, as it unfortunately happened, the Mother of the Child was gone of an Errand; there were left in the Room with her, her own second Daughter about 9 Years old, sick in Bed, and the poor Girl whom she murdered. Beacham on a sudden, seized hold of a Case Knife, and made an Offer at the Child's Throat, as it sat upon the Floor diverting itself. Upon which, her Daughter cried out, Why you wont murder poor Henny, Mamma, will you? She thereupon threw down the Knife, she says, and went to look out at the Window for the Child's Mother; but she staying upon the Errand, and not returning to Beacham's Expectation, she returned into the Room again, and taking the Knife, instantly murdered the poor Infant, by cutting it round its Throat, and giving it a Stab on the Side of its Breast. Her Daughter in Bed cried out for help, and was overheard by her Father; who, had he come directly, as soon as he heard the Cry, might possibly have prevented the Murder; but it seems, there were some Pales between him and the House, which he was not so expeditious in getting over, as 'twere to be wished he had been, but he unluckily stuck upon the Pales for some Time, so that others had discovered the bloody Scene before he came.

She seemed much better, and was ready to understand, and give Answers to what was said to her, since the Warrant for Execution came down, than ever she appeared to be before. She wept bitterly when the Affair was mentioned to her in private, but could give no farther or better Account than as above. She was thoroughly sensible, how much she merited her Fate, and said, as she had murdered the poor Babe, she deserved to die, and had no other Reason to desire to live, but for the Sake of her own Children, which are 4 or 5, whom she feared would not have that Care taken of them hereafter, as she had heretofore. She seemed to meet her Fate calmly, not insensibly, as if she had some glimmering Hopes, tho' shefrequently exprest her Doubts with Regard to her Happiness hereafter.

2. William Dickenson , aged 25, was born at Fordingworth, in Lincolnshire, and bred to Husbandry-work . His Parents dying when he was about nine or ten Years of Age, he was put into a Free-school in the Town aforesaid, where he learned only to read, and was then sent about his Business. He was never bound Apprentice, but took to Husbandry, and continued a Day-Servant at several Places; till, about eight Years ago, he hired himself a yearly Servant to a Farmer at Fullingham, in the County aforesaid. He seems to have been a very diligent careful Youth, and willing to learn to live in the World, by what he reports of himself; which is, that he always lived in the Esteem of his Masters, as he never neglected their Business; and moreover, what Money he got by his Labour he chiefly laid out in a very commendable Way; for, he says, he, together with some few others of his Age and Neighbourhood, employed a Person, after their Day-labour was over, in the long Winter-Evenings, to instruct them in reading and writing; by which he got a pretty Livelihood, and they received considerable Improvement; so that Dickenson was able both to read and write tolerably well.

He says he had been constantly, for eight Years before he came to Town, in one Service at Fullingham, but that, indeed, he began to think it too great Slavery; and his Master putting him upon a Task he did not much like, i.e. having ordered him to driive a Herd of Swine the next Day to some neighbouring Market, he gave him the Slip in the Night, and resolved to set out for London. But better had it been for him to have drove his Master's Swine to any, than his own to this Market.

He had not been in Town long before he was recommended to Mr. Knowles, Coal-dealer, in the Little Old Bailey ; to whom, he says, he should have been as good and faithful a Servant, as he was a Master, had he not been so unfortunately situate, as that neither his Master, nor his Wife, could scarce ever go to the Bureau, where the Money was kept, (which was in a Room of the Inside of the Shop) but he must hear the Sound of it; and besides, he lay in the very Room, which gave him the greater Opportunity; and so between the Temptation, the frequent Sound of the chinking of the Money, and the Opportunity he had by laying in the Room, the Devil tempted him to be a Thief, and he stole 50 l. The Thoughts of the Coin run in his Head Day and

Night, and he began to set his Head to work how he should come at it. At length the fatal Night came, and being prepared with Instruments for the Purpose, he resolved to break the Bureau: He did so, and, after wrenching two Locks, he came at the wish'd-for Prize, the Money mentioned in the Indictment.

As soon as he had got the Booty, he prepared to get off with it: He dressed himself, and having a Pair of Boots, he slung them cross his Shoulder, and in that Manner carried it off; for he took French Leave the same Night, and away he went towards Barnet . Between Five and Six o'Clock in the Morning he came there fatigu'd and sweating with his Load of Care; but seeing a Light at the Ship and Dragon, he knock'd, and gain'd Admittance. As soon as he got in, he called for Meat and Drink, which while the Landlord of the House was gone to provide for him, he set down his Load from his Shoulder, and left it carelessly on the other Side of the Kitchen. He eat and drank plentifully, and thought it would never be Day; but his own Folly, too soon for him, brought to Light what he had been doing.

After having refreshed himself, and drank a little freely, he began to wax warm, and was so free as to boast of his new Acquisition. Says he,

"Come,

"let's drink about; I have Money

"enough, my Boots are full of Money." Upon which he fetch'd his Boots from the other Side of the Room, and began to pull out the Bags, saying, he had an old Aunt died, and left him 50 l. and he was going into the Country to live upon it.

The Master of the House began now to suspect he had stole it, and accordingly laid a Trap for him, which the poor Fellow could not help falling into; his Appearance indeed not bespeaking one who might have so much Money at a Time of his own, nor yet be entrusted with it by any Body else, as at best he was but a poor, silly, Country Boy. Says the Master of the House,

"I had a

"rich old Aunt, and I knew where

"she laid her Money, so robb'd her,

"and came up into this Country,

"and set myself up with it." This was only a Fetch to bring it out, if the Case were as he suspected; and accordingly the unfortunate Youth immediately reply'd,

"I've done the

"same, and robb'd my Master in

"London, and am going into the

"Country to set up myself." The Youth was immediately secured, and a Messenger sent for his Master, who, when he came, discovered the whole Affair. Dickenson was then taken before a Magistrate, before whom he acknowledged the Fact, and was by him committed to Newgate.

Tho' the Temptation were never so great, he was informed, had he had an honest Mind, it would not have got the better of his Virtue. And tho' it was suspected he left his Country for some bad Practice, he entirely denied any Thing of that Kind, and protested he never before had a Thought of doing Injustice or Wrong to any Body; and still repeated, that, had he not that Temptation laid in his Way, he never should have thought of any such Thing.

But, tho' he was but a poor silly Country Boy, he had Invention enough to cut off his Irons. Tho' he had Books to read, yet a natural Inclination to Mischief was too strong for all Reading or Instruction. He got a little Knife, and made a Saw of it; but, at the first Attempt, it would not do; so he got another Knife, and did the same by it, which served his Purpose, and cut the Irons through. He said Macnamar had prompted him to it first, by telling him, that a Felon on the Common Side had begun to saw his Iron, and shewed him how easy a Matter it was to do it. However, he easily consented to it, and cut his own through in about three Days Time, working a little at a Time, as Opportunity served.

After this was discovered, he gave himself up for lost, for before he had entertained strong Hopes of escaping; but being found out, he was double iron'd, and then he began to lament his Case, and to think in Earnest of preparing, in the best Manner he was able, for his latter End. He appeared afterwards very penitent, and died in Hopes of a better Life.

3. John Macnamar , aged 17, was born at Cork , in the Kingdom of Ireland , and says he was baptized at Christ Church , in that City. His Parents removed to England when he was very young, and brought him with them: Their first Place of Residence, when they came over, was in Cripplegate Parish, where his Father, being then a good Workman, tho' in very low Circumstances, he made Interest to get him into the Parish School , when he was about eight Years of Age. He staid there between two and three Years, and learned to read, but was a very unlucky one, and ready at all Manner of Mischief. He was a Boy of good natural Parts, and might have done very well, had he been taken any Care of after he left School; but he was never put to any Trade , his Father foolishly indulging him in being at Home with him, and letting him carry the Tools after him, when he chanced to go to work, which was not often; so that Idleness was at first marked out to him by an Example:

He never was taught to like Work, nor does he pretend to say he ever did. He says, indeed, his Father would sometimes make him go out with him to work, but he being only a Journeyman, and that of the lower Class, the Boy could not learn much by him, had he been inclined so to do: But, on the contrary, what little he might have learned, he neglected; and having got into bad Company already, his Hours were disposed of another Way, as it better suited his Genius, and he owns himself a common Thief for three Years past.

He set out at first with robbing Hen-Roosts, and stripping Yards and Hedges of Cloaths, or any Thing else they could lay Hands on. Hoxton , Hackney , Windmill-hill , Moorfields , &c. were the constant, and daily Rendezvous for him, and his Companions, and Abundance of little petty Thieveries were done in those Parts by them every Night and Day. All this Time he lived, he says, with his Father in Shoreditch , when he thought proper to retire from playing his thievish Tricks, who would sometimes take him to Task, and sometimes correct him for staying out of Nights; but it was all to no Purpose; for as soon as Opportunity served, away he went to his old Haunts, as the Confederacy had always their appointed Times and Places to resort to. In this Course did he go on for a Year and a Half, and never went any further than the Neighbourhood above - mentioned, having hitherto some Fears, lest he should be found out; but at length he grew more hardened, and resolved upon House-breaking .

Accordingly he and two more engaged in a Design upon a House, in or about Hoxton , which was a Silk Weavers. They proposed to themselves, that if they could but get a Piece of Silk, it would be a good Booty, and they should get rich by it; having been spoke to by a Person, who buys stolen Goods to procure such a Thing for him, with a Promise of a good Reward, if they brought it him, against he wanted it, in five or six Days. They were determined upon it, and fixed upon the Time, which was no sooner come, than they, between one and two o'Clock in the Morning, attacked the Windows of the House, being prepared with Hammers, &c. for breaking it open. But as soon as they began to work, a Dog that was kept in the Neighbourhood happening to be loose that Night about the House, and hearing the Noise they made, came running full-mouth'd at them, which spoiled their Sport. They were all three very young, Macnamar the oldest; so that now they had nothing to do but to take Care of themselves:They escaped the Fury of the Dog with no small Difficulty, Macnamar having his Coat more than half torn off his Back. This spoiled him for a House-breaker for some Time, and he returned to his little pilfering Tricks again, as he had done before.

He says, he and two more such Urchins as himself, went on in this Way for a long Time, till his Campanions were taken up, one after another, and transported. However, there were others left, with whom he had formerly been concerned, and to them he applied himself again, and was admitted into their Company, and became as great a Thief and Housebreaker, as any one of his Years was, perhaps, ever known to be.

He owned that he had been a very wicked Youth, and concerned with many such like; but would mention no Name, nor particularize any other Robbery, tho' many, he said, he had been concerned in; and tho' it was said upon his Tryal, that he should say, the Evidence, James Guest , was concerned with him in no other Robbery, but that for which he was convicted. He always, to the last, insisted on the contrary, and affirmed, that he had been in many with him, and that he was the Person that first led him into these wicked Ways. Be that as it will, Macknamar had made great Progress, and was so wicked as to lead a poor Brother, not above ten Years of Age, into a Share and Concern of this Robbery, for which he suffered.

This young Rogue too, for Want of somewhat else to do, must contrive to cut off his Irons. This he effected also by stealing a Knife out of another Man's Cell, and somehow making a Saw of it, with which, in two Days Working, he had cut his Irons thro', and it being discovered, he was double ironed also.

The Account he gives of this Affair is, that whereas he and Dickenson were in one Cell together; Dickenson was always talking to him about making an Escape. He said, that Dickenson told him, there was a Man in Lincolnshire Goal, convicted for a Rape, who got a Knife, and having notch'd it sawed off his Irons, and made his Escape in Women's Cloaths; and that if he could get a Knife, they might both soon have their Irons off. He says, Dickenson on Monday Night got a Knife, and notching it only against his own Irons, began to work that Night, but could not do it. On Tuesday Night he cut again, but coming to a Part which was Steel, he could cut no further. Then he took the Knife himself, but did not do so well as the other, upon which; Dickenson took the Knife from himagain, calling him Numscull and Fool, and said he could do better himself, so cut it thro' the third Night.

These two poor unhappy Youths had deceived themselves with Hopes of making an Escape after their Irons were cut, by Means of borrowed Cloaths, or changing with each other, a Scheme, which had not the least Appearance of Success. After this Discovery, Macnamar too gave himself up; for before, he had entertained great Hopes, that upon Account of his Youth, his Life would have been spared.

During the first Week or ten Days after Conviction, these two behaved in a very penitent Manner, with much Lamentation and Weeping; and as far as I can find, minded their Books very well, being in daily Expectation of having their Doomsday fix'd. But finding it put off, they gave some Relaxation to serious Thoughts, and it produced the above Scheme.

We shall now see the Circumstances of the Robbery for which he was convicted; a most audacious Piece of Villainy to be undertaken by such Boys. Macnamar says, Guest led him into it, and shewed him the House, and which Way to attempt it. Be it so: However, he was so wicked himself as to go home to his Father's, a Carpenter, to provide Tools for their Purpose, and took his younger Brother from home along with him. To what Forwardness are Children now a Days brought! And, before he entered upon this Robbery, he went to a Shop under Pretence of trying a Coat, and running away with it, sold it immediately at another Shop for 15 d. which they drank out, and then went upon the Jobb. Guest stood without, and having broke thro' the Wash-house, Macnamar went in, and in Half an Hour's Time brought out Goods of divers Sorts to the Value of perhaps 10 or 15 l. Immediately they set out for Bristol , sold the Goods by the Way, and threw some away; they were about 16 Days abroad, taking their Pleasure, and returned to London pennyless. He acknowledged the whole Affair, and said, he deserved to die; and when he found it must be so, he began to lament and bewail his Fate. He was but young in Years, tho' old in successfull Wickedness, of a hardened Spirit, tho' timorous to the least Danger; and, I fear, was not so much affected for what he had done, as that he was to dye.

4. Russel Parnel , aged 25, says he was born in the Parish of St. George's in the East , and that he was descended from a good Family in

Huntingdonshire . Being of the younger Branch of the Family, which, through some Misfortunes, was somewhat reduced, his Father was obliged to come to London to seek his Fortune, and bred up his Children in such Manner as he could most conveniently. This unhappy Youth, it seems, was bred in a Rope-walk , in the Back Lane in Shadwell ; and this Business, he says, he followed till he took up another Way of Life, that proved his Ruin. His Parents would have given him what Education their Circumstances would admit of, but he baffled their Intentions; and tho' they paid several Quarters Schooling for him, yet he took Care that his Master should earn his Money easily, for he never gave him the Trouble to teach him any Thing that was good. In all Appearance he was a sour-headed, surly Fellow, of an enterprizing Temper, but not very daring. By his own Confession, he had great Encouragement from Persons in the Neighbourhood of Back-Lane, Cable-Street , in his Undertakings, who promised him, whatever he got they would give him a Price for; and one of them, it is said, was a very near Relation of his own. It is generally said, by those who knew him, that he has been at these Works of Darkness for six Years past, though he would own but one Year at first; at another Time it was somewhat above a Year; and in order to blind the World, that he might seem to have the Appearance of getting a Livelihood in an honest Way, he continued at Times now, and then, to work still at the Rope-walk.

He had some Years ago raised a Storm so violently against him, by a notorious Robbery he had committed, how or where he could not call to Mind, being of a very weak and shallow Memory; but it seems he was in so much Danger on Shore, that he chose rather to trust himself to the Mercy of the Seas. Accordingly he entered on Board a Man of War , a cruizing Ship, which never went far out of the Channel; but not liking his Berth, he took an Opportunity to leave her, after about four Months Continuance, and returned to his old Quarters.

Upon his Return he was very well received by his old Friends and Companions, being a prime Hand, and one that carried a good deal of Sway among those Sort of People. With these he began afresh to go on in the old beaten Path, committing frequent Robberies and Burglaries ; tho', he says, he had the good Fortune never to be overtaken in his Wickedness till this Time: And since under Conviction, he has had the Assurance to declare, that, one Year with another, he got 200 l. per Annnumby his various Schemes of Villainy.

However, there was another Time when he very narrowly escaped the Rock he has at length split upon. Some Time ago there was an Information made before a Justice, against Parnel and others, for being concerned in breaking open a Publick-House somewhere in Wapping , and stealing Copper, Brass, Pewter, &c. to a considerable Value. This put him upon securing his Retreat, which he did, by getting together a Parcel of Goods of one Sort or other, (honestly come by no Doubt) and he went and travelled the County of Surry , in the Disguise and Appearance of a Pedlar . In this Character he continued for about four Months, till the Storm was blown over; in which Time, somehow or other, Matters were compromized, and he came Home again, to do as he had done before.

It was about six Months ago that he returned, and shortly after he became acquainted with George Hall , who, being Accomplice , was Evidence also against him in this Fact for which he was convicted. They, in Company, says Russel, committed many a Robbery, and as fast as they got Money, spent it in rioting with the common Women of the Town. After this Fact was committed, they went off, and skulked about for some Time; but the Prosecutor knowing Russel, hunted him from one Place to another, and soon after took them; and being carried before a Magistrate, were both committed, the one to give Evidence. Russel was too stubborn and hardened to make any Discovery; but Hall embraced the Opportunity, it being no new Thing to him to become an Evidence, he having been so once before, against William Hatton , at the last May Sessions, who was convicted and executed. Russel never offered to deny the Fact for which he was convicted, but would by no Means be persuaded to speak particularly of any other Robbery.

About a Fortnight before the Warrant came down, he sent to some of his old Companions in Back-lane, Cable-street , where he formerly had his Abode, to come to see him, and threatened them hard what he would do, if they did not come. Upon this, in a Day or two after, they came with their Peace. Offering in their Hand, and bribed him to Secrecy, by affording him Subsistence during Life, and furnishing him with a proper Dress to be hanged in.

His Behaviour seemed very quiet under Sentence of Death, and he had great Hopes of saving his Life; till the Warrant came down; and then, tho' he had been very successful incarrying on all Manner of Wickedness, he had scarce Sense enough to know what it was to consider of the Errors of his past Life, and repent; notwithstanding it was always uppermost, and ready at his Tongue's End, I hope I shall make Peace with God. As he had lived in Defiance of all Law, he died, to all Appearance, so hardened as scarce ever in the least to change Countenance.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Monday, the 13th Instant, about Nine o'Clock, Russel Parnel and John Macnamar , in one Cart, and William Dickenson and Rachel Beacham , in another, were conveyed from Newgate to the Place of Execution. Parnel, at getting into the Cart, saw several of his old Acquaintance, whom he spoke to very chearfully, and shook Hands with them at parting, before the Cart drew away. Macnamar had slipped his Shoes in the Press-Yard, but they were ordered to be pulled up again at the Heels; however, when he had got into the Cart he kicked off one Shoe immediately, and the other not coming off so easily, with great Violence, and seemingly in Anger, having kicked two or three Times, he got rid off it, crying at the same Time with Anger. After they came to the Place of Execution, having recommended their departing Souls to God, I was about to leave them, when Dickenson told me he had something to say; and it was, that upon coming to Town he had changed his Name, and that his real Name was Samuel Taylor , having left a Wife and Child behind him in Lincolnshire ; then the Cart was driven from under them. Their Bodies, after hanging their usual Time, were cut down, and delivered to their Friends: Parnel's and Macnamar's were carried away in a Hearse, Beacham's in a Coach, and Dickenson's was left for any one that would dispose of it. All was done without any great Hurry or Noise.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

