THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 24th of this Instant May 1736, BEING THE Second EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir JOHN WILLIAMS , Knt .

Number II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street , M.DCC.XXXVI.

[Price Six-Pence.]



ADVERTISEMENTS.

Just Published, The THIRD EDITION, By the Author of the Week's Preparation to the Sacrament.

THE HOLY WEEK: Or, The PASSION WEEK before EASTER. In Meditations, Ejaculations, and Prayers upon the Sufferings of our Saviour JESUS CHRIST. 12mo. Price 4d.

Printed for J. Hazard, at the Bible, in Stationers-Court.

Where also may be had,

Devotions for the Altar; or, Select Prayers and Meditations to be used before, at, and after the Receiving the Holy Communion. Collected by a Lady. Price bound in Sheep 9 d. Galf 1 s.

Sacramental Devotions, and suitable Meditations, peculiarly adapted to the Communion Office, compiled out of the Church Liturgy. By the late eminent Mr. Golston, Revised by James King , A. M. The 4th Edition, 12mo. Price bound in Sheep 1 s. In Calf 1 s. 6 d.

A Manual of Prayers, for the Use of the Scholars of Winchester-College, and all other devout Christians. To which are added, Three Hymns for Morning, Evening and Midnight. By Dr . Thomas Ken , late Bishop of Bath and Wells . The 23 d Edition. To which is perfix'd, A faithful Account of his Lordship's Life. Price bound in Sheep 1 s. In Calf 1 s. 6.

A compleat Treatise of Practical Navigation, deduced from its first Principles. Together with all the necessary Tables. To which are added, The useful Theorems of Mensuration, Surveying, and Gauging; with their Application to Practise. Written for the Academy in Tower-street, &c. By Archibald Patoun , Fellow of the Royal Society , 8vo. Price 5 s. 6 d.

The Feasts and Fasts of the Church of England; the Reasons and the Grounds of their Celebrations. With Practical Meditations upon the several Days. Concluding with distinct Heads, with suitable Prayers and the proper Collects of the Church. To which is added, An Appendix, wherein the three grand Solemnities added to the Liturgy of the Church of England, are clearly explained. Illustrated with many new curious Copper Plates. 8vo. Price 5 s.

The Caelestial Anodine Tincture: Or, The Great Pain-Easing Medicine.

WHICH has given general Satisfaction to all that have used it for its wonderful and Never-failing Success, causing immediate Ease and Relief in all Pains, either inward or outward; and is the most certain Remedy in the World for a sure and speedy cure of the Cholick, expelling Wind, Gripes, and Pains in the Stomach; the Pleurisy, Stiches, or Pains in the Side; in Rheumatick or Gout pains, it hath given Ease to a Miracle, when all other Remedies have fail'd, in the Gravel and Stone, in the Kidneys, giving Ease forthwith, and brings them away to Admiration; also facilitates and causes a speedy Delivery in Child-birth. 'Tis no Quack trifling Thing to allure the World with, but a real and well experienced Medicine, not acting by Stupifaction (as Opiates) but by a Friendly, Balsamick, and subtile Nature, pacifying the most severe and terrible Pains, and carries off the Cause, not by purging, but by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind.

If used outwardly, 'Tis excellent for Cramps, Swellings, Aches, Pains, Numbness, &c. and all other aged Infirmities.

No Family ought to be without it.

Sold Wholesale or Retale by Mr. Parker, Printer, at the Star in Salisbury-Court, and by such Persons as he shall depute, viz. at the Wheat-Sheaf in Bandy-Leg-Walk, Southwark, Eighteen-pence a Bottle, with printed Directions, seal'd with a Chiveron between three Mullets, charg'd with three Buck's Heads, cabossed.

Where is also sold.

An Oyntment which cures the Itch, Burns, or Scaldings. Also, a Water for curing sore and weak Eyes, and a Medicine giving immediate Ease for the Tooth-Ach, for 1 s. each.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir John Williams , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Baron Thompson; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and others of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday the 25th, 26th, and 27th, of February, 1736, in the Ninth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

One Woman, viz. Ann Newman , was by the Jury found Guilty of a Capital Crime, and condemn'd to die.

And at the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir John Williams , Knt . Lord Mayor for the City of London ; the Right Honourable the Lord Hardwick; the Honourable Mr. Justice Denton; the Honourable Mr. Justice Commyns; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others of his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City and London, and Justices of Goal Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Monday and Tuesday,

the 6th, 7th, 8th, 10th, and 11th of May, 1736, in the Ninth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Seven Men, viz. Stephen Collard , George Ward , John Talton , Daniel Malden , Moses Gladwyn , Christopher Freeman , and Francis Owen , were by the Jury convicted of Capital Crimes and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they having been a Company of harden'd stupid Creatures; I exhorted them to think on the evil Course of Life, which they too lately followed, and what a terrible Thing it is to depart from, and to be at enmity with God, who can destroy both Soul and Body in Hell-fire, which punishment, without all doubt, they fully deserved, for their Contempt of God, and neglecting of his Ordinances; and therefore, they having but a few Moments of Time assigned them in this World; I show'd them of what great Importance it was, to improve that very short Time in working out their Souls Salvation with fear and trembling, while it is called to day, since upon the improvement or misimprovement of their few remaining Moments, depended no less than an eternity of Happiness, or eternity of Misery: And who can abide with everlasting Burnings? And as the Tree falleth, so it must lie: God having declared that he will Reward every one according to their Deeds: To them who by patient continuance in well doing, seek for Glory and Honour, and Immortality, eternal Life: But unto them that are Contentious, and do not obey the Truth, but obey Unrighteousness, Indignation and Wrath; Tribulation and Anguish upon every Soul of Man that doth Evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile. But Glory Honour, and Peace to every Man that worketh Good, to the Jew first and also to the Gentile. For there is no respect of Persons with God. Rom. 2. 6. &c. From this it was observed, that God is just, who chastises, or punishes every Man according to his Deserts, and therefore there is no room left for Complaint, however hard our Lot may be, for, why should a living Man complain, a Man for the punishment of his Sins? 2dly, We observ'd, that God being no respecter of Persons, and all having sinned and come short of the Glory of God, for all Men have corrupted their Ways and gone backward, and are become liable to the Divine Wrath and Vengeance, there being none that doeth good, no not one: Therefore I desir'd them, still to put their Trust and Confidence in God's Mercy, however great, however numerous their Sins were, He having declar'd Himself to be a God, Merciful and Gracious, Long-suffering and Patient, abundant in Goodness and Truth; no way delighting in the Death of a Sinner, but who is by far more desirous, that he should Repent, be converted and live. Owen's Crime having been singular, in wickedly setting Fire to the Bell-Inn in Warwick-Lane , I

threatned him with the Terrors of the Lord, shewing him, that the Torments of the Wicked in a future Life, are represented in Scripture by Lakes of Fire and Brimstone, in which they are to be for ever and ever punished; and that he having committed such an enormous Crime, certainly deserved to be punished, by being eternally seperated from the Presence of the Lord and the Glory of his Power, and cast into those Lakes of Fire and Brimstone with Devils and damned Spirits. He was not willing to make a free Confession of his Crime, neither was he duly sensible of his Guilt, but too stupid and hard-hearted.

I instructed them in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, particularly of the Lord's Supper, where we have all the Benefits of the New Covenant, sealed and confirmed to us, if rightly received, from these Words, This do in Remembrance of me, St. Luke xxii, 19.

Whilst these and many like Exhortations were given, they behaved quietly in Chapel, and George Ward made regular Responces; the rest of them, though they had been taught Reading, yet were so vicious that they forgot all, and knew little or nothing; they sometimes laughed or smiled, but when reproved, they behaved more decently: They were a Sett of inconsiderate, profane, ignorant, and obstinate Creatures. Thomas Tarlton behaved better than the others, and seemed most affected with his miserable Case.

Upon Thursday the 20th of this Instant May, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the eight Malefactors under Sentence of Death, lying in the Cells of Newgate; when Ann Newman , of St. Botolph, Aldgate , for feloniously stealing out of the House of Jacob Busalgo , a Barbary Ducat, value 8 s. 6 d. a Barbary silver Ducat, value 2 d. and a green silk Purse, value 6 d. the Goods and Moneys of the said Busalgo, on the 17th of January; Stephen Collard , for privately stealing from the Person of John Morris , in St. Christopher's Parish, a silver Watch, value 5 l. a silver chain, value 7 s. March the 1st; and Moses Gladwin , for stealing a dozen of silk Handkerchiefs, value 40 s. from the Shop of John Anderson , March the 16th, received his Majesties most gracious Reprieve: Ann Newman and Moses Gladwin to be transported for fourteen Years, and Stephen Collard to be transported for Life; the remaining five, viz. George Ward , John Tarlton , Christopher Freeman , Daniel Malden , alias Morgan , alias Smith , and Francis Owen , were ordered for Execution.

1. George Ward , was indicted for breaking and entering the House of Thomas Gibson , of St. James's Clerkenwell , (with Patrick Hall and Edward

Dillon , not yet taken) and stealing thence a silver Watch, value 4 l. a silver Porringer, value 30 s. a silver Cup, value 3 l. a Pair of black silk Stockings, value 10 s. and a silver Spoon, value 10 s. the Goods of Tho. Gibson , March the 26th, 1735.

He was a second Time indicted for assaulting Thomas Gibson in his Dwelling House, putting him in Fear, and taking from him 10 s. in Money, the 26th of March aforesaid.

I. George Ward , 25 Years of Age, born at Dublin in the Kingdom of Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, and instructed him in religious Principles; when of Age he was put to a House-Carpenter , but being a Boy of a perverse Disposition, he associated with the worst of Company, neglected his Business, and joined with a most mischievous Gang of young Fellows, (whom in that Country they called the Cavanebale) who committed the most unaccountable Disorders in Robberies, Murders, and Riots, that in any Age have been heard of.

In his own Country he was concerned in every Kind of Theft and Robbery: When the Constables had taken up Street-Walkers, and put them into a Round-house, they being a numerous Company of impudent Thieves, armed with Swords, Pistols, Clubs, &c. used to set at Liberty the miserable infamous Creatures, and put in their Place the Constables, Watchmen, or Officers of Justice, and to leave them locked up, after they had abused and beat them within an Inch of their Lives; and after the same Manner they used to relieve Thieves, Robbers, or Highwaymen. He got acquainted with the most infamous of the Gangs, and some of his own Countrymen, with whom he committed a deal of Street and Highway Robberies, broke many Houses, pick'd Pockets, stole out of Shops, and were perpetually intent upon doing Mischief, particularly he broke and robbed two Houses in or by Great Wild-street , and in the Evening he, with some of his Accomplices, used constantly to go out upon the Sneak, and to take and run away with whatever they could lay hold on in Shops; and this was their daily Practice and Manner of Life.

He was one of the most obdur'd audacious young Men, that ever was reduced to his unhappy Circumstances, who by no Means could be induced to a serious Preparation for Death; but after the Dead Warrant came down, I asking him, If he had any Thing to confess for the Ease of his Mind or Satisfaction of the World? He answered, That he would say nothing, and turning about went off; and again desiring him to tell, Why they not only robbed but shot, in a Manner murder'd, Mr. Gibson, as he was going down Stairs? He spoke aloud, That he was sorry, they had

not shot him worse or effectually, that he might tell no more, or Words to that Purpose.

He was a poor obdur'd, unthinking, obstinate Creature: I intreated him to think upon Death. Judgment, and Eternity, and incessantly to cry to God for Mercy. He behaved indifferently well in Chapel, and having been the only one of the Seven who could read well, he made regular Responces, and seemed attentive, tho' not with such decent Gravity and Concern, as became one in his miserable Condition.

John Tarlton and Thomas Bully were indicted for stealing a black Gelding, value 45 s. and a black Colt, value 5 l. the Goods of Thomas Page , Feb. the 26th.

Bully acquitted, and Tarlton found Guilty. DEATH.

2. John Tarlton , about 32 or 33 Years of Age, born at Reading of honest Parents, who educated him at School, and had him instructed in Principles of Religion, but being of an unsettled Temper, he did not much mind such Things, for neglecting all Religion and Virtue, he addicted himself wholly to his Pleasures, and satisfying his lustful Appetite. When of Age they put him to a Bricklayer , and he served his Time honestly; he afterwards lived by his Business, and set up Master Bricklayer at Reading , where he had very good Business, not wanting Friends to advance his Interest; and marrying a Wife, he got a very handsome Maintenance for his Wife and Family, but not loving to be confined to Business, he went too much abroad, which brought him into several Inconveniences, and obliged him to come to London , where being expert in his Trade, he was employed by one of the most eminent Bricklayer's about the Town, and had good Encouragement; but taking up with loose Women, with whom he idled away his Time, and having forsaken his own Wife, he fell into Poverty, and went head long to Destruction.

He said he never robbed on the Highway, nor in the Streets, nor breaking open Houses, or such notorious Acts, but being in great need, he took any small Thing that came in his Way, pilfer'd and did petty Larcenies, and lost all Credit and Character, and became utterly contemptible and infamous.

He acknowledged that he took a black Gelding, a Mare, and a black Colt, out of a Farm-yard in the Parish of Pen , in Buckinghamshire , and the Countess of Harold's Turkies, for which Fact he was taken up and put into New-Prison , but alledged, that having gave his Evidence against others, and that he was very sorry, when he made his Impeachment before the Justice, that he should be so inhuman, to put his own Brother in the Information: He was asked by a

Person who came to see him, How he could impeach his own Brother? He expected by that Means (he said) to have saved his own Life.

He made no Defence, only told a long Story of his taking the Horses, and owned every Thing alledged against himself. He owned that he was a very wicked Youth, having been a great Swearer, Drinker, and prophane to a high Degree, in breaking the Sabbath and neglecting all religious Ordinances. He behaved well under his Misfortunes, professed a deep Penitence, a sincere Faith in Christ, and that he died in Peace with all the World.

Christopher Freeman and Samuel Ellard , were indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling-House of Edward Exton , and stealing thence six Linnen Sheets, a holland Apron, a Linnen Gown, two Linnen Aprons, a Holland Shirt, two Dimity Petticoats, a Quilted Petticoat, and other Things, the Goods of Jacob Gold , March the 4th.

Ellard acquitted, and Freeman guilty. DEATH.

3. Christopher Freeman , about 20 Years of Age, of honest Parents, had little Education, and made very bad Use of what he had, having been wholly addicted to every Kind of Vice. He was bred a Weaver in Spittlefields , but weary of close Application to Business, he commonly went to Sea , and served on board Ships of War and Merchant-Men. When at Home he associated with the vilest Company both of Men and Women, who advised and drove him to all Kind of Villanies, so that he became one of the most abandon'd Creatures in or about Town.

He owned that he committed a number of Thefts and Robberies, and among others, that in a short Time past, he stole above fifty Pewter Signs. As to the Robbery of which he was convicted and for which he died, he alledged, that the Bundle of Cloaths and Linnen, was handed to him by a Woman in the Street, who immediately cried out after him, Stop Thief, and upon that he was taken up, and not seeing the Woman again, he was charged with the Robbery; but this was only Fiction, for he afterwards owned that he got into the House, and stole the Things mentioned in the Indictment, only with this Variation, that the Door was not latched.

He and Ward, when I first examined and exhorted privately, behaved very undecently, laughed and seem'd to make a Mock of every Thing that was serious and regular, and foolishly ran away, as if some Injury had been done them. I reproved them sharply, exposing to them the dangerous Case they were in, that it was not Man, but God they had to deal

with, before whom in a few Moments they were to appear, and to render an Account of all the Actions they had done, whether good or bad: They were not much affcted, till such Time as the Dead-Warrant came to Newgate , they then behaved with much greater Decency and Submission, acknowledging themselves to have been great Offenders, and that their Sufferings were most just and according to Law, and withal expressing their Hopes of obtaining Mercy from God through Christ. Freeman declared his Faith in Christ, as the Son of God, and only Saviour of Sinners; that he repented of all the Sins of his most scandalous Life, and died in Peace with all the World.

Francis Owen was indicted, for that he on the 6th of March, in a Stable in the Yard of John Armitstead , wilfully and maliciously did set it on Fire, to the great Damage of the said John Armitstead .

4. Francis Owen , 19 Years of Age, born in Black Fryars of mean Parents, had but little Education, and did not improve what he had to any considerable Purpose; he was of no Trade, but lived about Newgate Market by going of Errands or carrying of Things . He was a hired Servant in the Bell Inn in Warwick Lane , before he committed the Fact he died for; and alledged, That he did not set Fire to the Stable on Purpose, but that smoaking a Pipe, a little of the Fire accidentally fell among the Hay where he used to lie, and set it in a Flame. This was but a Pretence of an Excuse, for the Proof was full against him, that he set Fire to the Hay on Purpose, he having been seen to go three Times to the Stable about 8 o'Clock at Night, the 6th of March; and the third Time like the Noise of a Gun being heard among the Hay, immediately after that, the Flames and Smoak were seen coming out of the Windows. And in the Compter he confessed to several, that he went to the Foot of Snow-Hill, and bought Powder on Purpose to put Fire to the Inn, which was proved upon him; and the Engineer to the Hand-in Hand Fire Office gave in Evidence, That Owen came down and told him, The Bell-Inn in Warwick Lane , was on Fire; and this he did when he believed it on Fire, and before any other Person knew of it.

When the Dead - Warrant came down, he confessed all was true as sworn against him, and that he was heartily sorry he had committed so great a Villainy: I laid down to him what a most heinous Crime he had committed in setting Fire to any House or Place, what great Losses might have been sustained, and that the Lives of several innocent Persons might have been lost, if the Providence of God had not prevented it.

The Truth of all which he owned, and declared himself mightily grieved and concerned for so vile an Action. He said, that being concerned in the Fire-Office as one of them who drove the Engine, for the Lucre of Three Half Crowns which was his Hire, without considering the fatal Consequences to himself, and what might have happened to many others, (if God had not been good.) He set Fire to the Hay in the Stable, having laid Gunpowder there for that Purpose. The two first Times he put Fire to it, it would not take effect, the third Time he went in and blew upon it with his Mouth, which singed his Beard, and very much burnt his Eye-Lashes, and much damaged his Face by the Flashing of the Powder. He was not willing to confess this, though he did acknowledge it privately to some in the Goal.

He was a poor, inconsiderate, silly, thoughtless, ignorant Creature: He owned that he had been wicked in drinking, swearing, and other Vices, but affirmed, That he always lived very honest, having wronged nobody. He behaved indifferently well under Sentence, he professed that he believed to be saved by the Mercy of God, through Faith in Christ; that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died in Charity with all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON the Morning of their Execution, between Nine and Ten o'Clock, they were carried from Newgate in two Carts; Tarlton , for Horse-stealing, and Francis Owen , for setting Fire to the Bell Inn in Warwick-Lane , in one Cart; Christopher Freeman for House-breaking, and George Ward , for robbing Mr Gibson, a Baker at Islington in the other Cart. When they came to the Place of Execution they all appeared very devout, crying fervently to God to have Mercy on them; where being immediately tied up, I went into the Cart to them, and asked them whether they had any Thing more to add to their former Confessions, they replied they had not; Owen own'd the Fact for which he died, and heartily repented of it. Ward also acknowledged the Fact for which he suffered, and being asked who was concerned with him in attacking Mr. Ryan the Player, said, there were two others, one named Denny, who died in Newgate, but the other Person's Name he would not discover, supposing him to be now living in Dublin. Freeman owned the Robbery for which he died, but said that the Door was not latched; and Tarlton also owned the stealing the Rev. Mr. Page's Gelding and Colt, and farther added, that all his Misfortunes came by taking too much Delight in the Company of Women, by whose Means he neglected his Business, which he said at one Time he had sufficient to employ upwards of twenty Men, and was very well respected, not only by the best Gentlemen in the Town of Reading in Berkshire, but also by a great many Gentlemen in that County; Tarlton's Brother came into the Cart to take his last Farewell of him, where they embraced each other very tenderly. After they had done speaking I prayed by them for a considerable Time, and sung with them a Penitential Psalm, then recommended them to call on God, which they did, crying out, Lord have Mercy upon us, Christ have Mercy upon us, Lord Jesus receive our poor Souls; then the Cart drew away.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHERIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

The following is an Account of the Robberies, committed by the three following Persons, viz John Tarlton , Christopher Freeman , and George Ward , the Irishman.

JOhn Tarlton , near 30 Years of Age born at a Place called Burvile , within two Miles of Reading in Berkshire , of honest Parents, who gave him a good Education, when of Age he became Apprentice to his Father in the Trade of a Bricklayer , with whom he lived till he was 19 Years of Age, and then worked under Mr. Wright, a builder to the right Hon. the Earl of Burlington, with whom he continued four Years; after that he workt for Mr. Brooksbank, at Hummerton , near Hackney , and from thence went to the Lord Fitzwalters of Chelmsford in Essex , where he assisted in building his Lordships House; from thence was sent for to Rochester in Kent , where he directed the fine front of the Sessions-House; after which he was recommended to build a House for a noble Lord, at a Place called Hamstead , two Miles beyond Newbury in Berks , but the Plan being too large, his Lordship thought fit not to go on with the building; from thence he went to Newbury where he workt with Mr. Hicks a Bricklayer and Stone-Cutter, for sometime; after he left Mr. Hicks he set up for himself at Reading , where he built several Houses for Gentlemen in that Town, and for Francis Hawes , Esq ; at Pangburn having sometimes upwards of 20 Men at work under him; but being out of Business about Christmas last, he came up to London to get Employment, where unhappily getting acquainted with two Men by chance, and drinking very freely together, they perswaded him to go along with them into the Country to look for work, and coming to a Place called Penn in Bucks , they went into the Yard of the Rev. Mr. Page, and stole a Black Gelding and a Colt, and came to London , where they sold the Gelding for one Guinea and half, and deliver'd the Colt up, which Mr. Page had again, and hearing of his Gelding, found out the Person that had bought him of them, and sold him again to him; he said that being at work near Shoreditch , and Search being made for him by the Direction of the Mayor of Reading, he was there taken by one Thomas Field , and - Legg, two Bricklayers , who came from Reading for that purpose, from whom he made his Escape, but was soon retaken by them, and carried before a Magistrate, who committed him to New-Prison , from whence he was removed to Newgate ; he said he always took care to live honestly till the committing of this unhappy Fact for which he dyed; and desired that no Person would reflect on his Wife, and Rela

tions, for they knew nothing of his following ill Courses.

The following Lines, was sound in the abovesaid Malefactors Cell; which shews the Stupidity and hardness of these unthinking and miserable Creatures, although under Sentence of Death.

Poverty God D-n you, what makes you (haunt me so,

I han't one Grigg to help my self you know:

Neither Shirt, Shoe, nor Hose,

For I have pawn'd my Cloaths:

I han't a Coat upon my Back,

No, nor by G-d but half a Hat,

Both Day and Night, thus Maxims runs,

Forc'd to Eat dry crusts, instead of butter'd Buns.

Christopher Freeman , about 20 Years of Age, Born in Spittle-Fields , of honest Parents; who when he was capable by some Friends got him into the Free-School, where he continued about 2 Years, and then went to work at the Weaving business with his Grandfather, with whom he lived till within these two Years past, then left him and went to Sea , on board the Cornwall Man of War to Leghorn , and returned to England in about 9 Months, in the said Ship; he said, that sometime after he came home, he got into a Company of Pick-pockets, with whom he Associated sometime, but that not answering, he got into other Company, who were above following such a low way: He said about a Year and half ago, he and two more, broke open a House at Deptford in Kent , by taking a Pannel out of the Parlour Window backwards; from whence they took a Silver Cup, a Silver Tankard, six Silver Tea-Spoons, and a pair of Silver Snuffers, two Coats, and two Wastcoats, and a Bible, which they sold for half a Guinea, and sold the Cup and Tankard, to Mrs. Morris, (who is since Transported) for 6 l. 7 s. Sometime after this Robbery, they went on the Water, and Robbed several Ships, and near Rotherith they Robbed a Ship of three suits of Cloths, a Gold Watch in a piece of a shoe, nailed to the Ships side, and a pair of silver Buckels, by putting up the Stern Cabbin Window, and getting into the Cabbin; the next Robbery they committed was, in a Ship near Billingsgate , from whence they took a Wooden Box, in which was a dozen and half of Leghorn Hats, three pound of sowing Silk, and a large parcel of fine Thread; which they sold for 5 l. Some time after this Robbery, they robbed a Ship at Black-wall ; out of which they took 1 Suit of Cloths, a silver string Watch, and a pair of silver Buckles, the Watch he said, he wore himself for six Months afterwards, and then sold it for one Guinea and an half; a little time after, as he and another were coming through Rotherith , they met a young Lad who asked them where they were going, they answered him to London ; he told them

that his Father was moving by Night, and that if they would assist him he would shew them, which they consented to; went with him, and took out of the House a Box of Lace Headcloths, which they sold for Seven Pounds, two pair of Bed Curtains, a silver Pint Mugg, half a dozen Tea-spoons, and a silver Sugar Caster, and carryed them to a House in Old Gravel-Lane ; but the Boy stagging them (meaning, following them) they ran from him, and got into a Brandy-shop near Ragg Fair , where the Boy overtook them, and was going to Wittle, (that is, to tell the People, that they had robbed the House) however, giving him six-pence, and telling him he should shear part of the Money they were Sold for, they took an opportunity to get away from him.

Some Time after this he and two more going through Tower-street , about the Dusk of the Evening, they saw a Cape Coat and Waistcoat hanging in a Room, in an Apothecary's Shop, Freeman lifted up the Sash and went in, and took out the Coat and Waistcoat, a Velvet Cap, a Silver Cup, and a Bible, which they sold and pawned for 3 l. 5 s. After this Robbery he and two more stole three Pewter Signs in White-Chappel, which they sold for 6 d. per Pound; these Signs he said they got down by going up a Ladder, and wrenching the Hooks on which they hung, the Names of the two Signs were the Magpye and Horse shoe, and the Horns opposite it; a Night or two after they stole the Sign of the Black Boy, near the Cloysters in Smithfield , as also the Sign of the Still, about ten Doors higher, one of which they lost near the Sheep-pens, being followed by the Scout Cull, (meaning the Watchman) and had like to have been taken in carrying it off to Swan Alley Another Night, a little after, they stole the Sign of the Still in St. John's-Street , near Hicks's Hall , and melted it down, for this Sign their Lodgings were searched, and they running away, gave a Suspicion of their stealing it; they had stolen the Sign of the Plough, against the Sign of the Still, the same Night, but were disturbed by a Butcher driving his Horse with a Carcass on his Back, who perceived the Ladder against the Sign-Post, which obliged them to go off without taking that Sign down. The next Robbery they committed was at a House near Clerkenwell , where they got over the Wall by a Ladder, and took from thence a Copper. The next Sign they stole was the King John's-Head in Holloway-Lane , Shoreditch , which they were obliged to saw both Hooks off to get down, and carried it to a Hill near the Fox and Goose in Old-street Road , where they hid it under some Dung and Dirt; thinking it safe, but it was found by a Person who was charged with stealing it, tho' he knew nothing of the Matter. A little while after

they stole a Sign near Blue-Anchor-Alley , in Bunhill-Row . Some Time after they attempted to steal a Sign out of Featherstone-street , near the same Place, but Day-light appearing, were obliged to quit it, after having sawed one of the Ears off the Hook whereon it hung. He said that he had been concerned in stealing of above fifty Signs in less than two Years Time, and had committed several Other Thefts which he could not remember; as to the Fact for which he was convicted, he said he was guilty of it; but declared that the Door was open when he went in, and took the Linnen out; he desired that no Person would reflect on his Friends (they always giving him the best Advice) but that his own Inclination lead him to all Manner of Vice, which was the Occasion of his miserable End. On Saturday Morning last, as he was going up to Chappel, he said in a jocular way to his Fellow-Sufferers, This is a fine Act indeed, you thought there would be an Act of Indemnity, which I believe will be at the Place of Execution on Monday next.

George Ward , near 26 Years of Age, born at Dublin , in the Kingdom of Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him a tolerable Education, and when of Age, put him Apprentice to a House-Carpenter in that Kingdom, with whom he served out his Time faithfully, and followed his Business honestly for sometime; but having got into a Fray there, was obliged to leave it and come over to England , which was about March last was two Years, where he stayed one whole Year, in which Time he became acquainted with Patrick Hall , who had been a Servant , with Mr. Gibson, some short Time before; who being a Drinking at a Publick House in Drury-Lane , with three or four other Persons, they were talking of going to Ireland , if they had Cloths and Money, when Hall told them he could put them in a way to get both, if they would agree, and be secret, which they all promised; he then told them, that Mr. Gibson received a Graziers Money in Smithfield , every Monday, and that was the properest Time to rob him, to which they all consented, if they could be sure it was there. Hall telling them he was sure there was about four or five hundred Pounds; in a short Time after this Proposal, they met again, two or three of them having taken a View of the Place, and finding it would answer their Purpose, they on the 26th of March, about two in the Morning, came to the Garden Door behind the House, and he went over the Wall, and opened the Door to the rest, who all came in, (three with black Crape over their Faces, and armed with two old Pistols and an old Sword) and went into the Woodhouse to wait till the Man came to

fetch the Shovel to sweep the Oven, which was in a few Minutes after, when Brain Bird, Mr. Gibson's Man, coming out of the Bake-house, they threw him down and rushed into the Master, when Ward fired his Pistol at him, and Mr. Gibson having the Rustling Pole in his Hand, struck at him but missed him, he leaving the Door on the Jarr in his Hand, and Mr. Gibson making a second Blow, struck him in the left Eye, which made him Bleed, when another fired a Pistol over Ward's Shoulder, and shot Mr. Gibson in the Arm, he then closed in with him, and threw him down, and told him he would blow his Brains out if he offer'd to stir; they then brought the Man into the Bake-house and Blind-folded him, and tyed his and his Master's Thumbs and Arms with the Strings that the Sacks Mouths were tyed up with and Apron Strings; the Candles being near out, he ordered the Servant to tell-where they were, who told him they were in a Dresser Draw in the Kitchen, upon which he pulled the Handkerchief from off his Eyes, and forced him to go with him into the Kitchen and fetch them, they then returned again into the Bake-house, where he had left the Master by himself, with whom he staid while his Compaions rifled the House, and took the following Goods viz.

A large quantity of Linnen, two suits of Cloths, several pair of Stockings, one Hat, (in which they put the Money that they took out of the Till, which he said near all Half-pence) two Gold pieces of Coin, one of which he sold for 6 s. and the other for 22 s. a two handle Silver Cup, a Silver Porringer, two Gold Rings, a pair of Silver Sleeve Buttons a Silver Stockbuckle, a pair of wrought silver Shoe Buckles, a Silver Spoon, a Silver Watch, a Silver Coral, and Chain, and several other Things, some of which they sold, and some are now in Pawn. After they had committed this Robbery, they divided the Booty, and four of them went for Bristol in order to embark for Ireland , where they met with a certain Person, who speaking to one of his Companions that knew him, they fell into Discourse how Trade went on in Bristol, meaning the Highway, the Person replyed very well, and that if he had a Companion they could get Money enough; and in a few Days after, they sailed to Ireland , where he staid about four Months, and returned again to England , and came to Bridgewater in Somersetshire , where he staid till the Time he was taken (having been there near six Months) which was on the 24th of January last, in the following Manner.

A Person came there and asked whether one George Ward , a Carpenter , did not Work in the Town, and being answered he did, sent for him to the Sign of the Ship , a Publick House, where he went to him, and after some Discourse had passed between them,

he asked the Party who sent for who it was that sat in the Chimneycorner; and being answered by his supposed Friend, that it was an honest Man whom he had overtaken about 3 Miles off; he seemed easy, when the Man who was Mr. Gibson's Brother, called for the Hostler, to know whether his Horse had any Oats, and being answered he had, he said he would go and see him Eat them; but instead thereof, brought in a Constable and several Assistants, who secured him and carry'd him before Ambrose Hosee , Esq ; Mayor of Bridgewater , and Samuel Smith , Esq ; one of the Aldermen of the said Town, who committed him to Illchester-Goal from whence he was brought by Habeas Corpus to Newgate .

On Saturday he said he only wanted to do one Thing more before he dyed, and then he should be easy, and being asked what that was, he wished that the Person who was the Cause of his being Apprehended would come to see him, he would stabb him to the Heart.

On Sunday Night he declared that he with one Denny, (who since died in Newgate) and another, were the Persons who stopped Mr. Ryan, the Player, sometime since in Great-Queen-Street , with an Intent to rob him, and that he was the Person that fired the Pistol at him, which Mr. Ryan being acquainted with, went to Newgate the Morning of his Execution, where he declared the same to him and begged his Pardon, saying, he did not intend to shoot him, but that the Pistol went off Accidentally.

He said, that about July was Twelve Months, one Paul Ferrel who in Dublin was called Gallows Paul, a fellow that made it his Business to Swear against People for Committing Riots, and have them taken up; two Parties (that is to say,) the Liberty Boys, and the Ormond Boys, came to a resolution to dispatch him when ever they met him, and that if the one side took him, they would deliver him to the other; and it happening that a Robbery was Committed in Dublin , and he suspected thereof, kept out of the way for three or four Days; but being afterwards taken about six Miles from Dublin , at a Place called Swords ; as the Officers were bringing him in a Carr, to Kilmanham Goal , the Ormand Boys rescued him from the Officers, and delivered him to the Liberty Boys, least he should escape the Punishment they thought he deserved who carryed him to New Market, Watch-house , where a Jury of them sat on him, entered into a consultation what Punishment to inflict on him; when some were for quartering him, and some were for Hanging him, but at last resolved to cut his Tongue out: But he begged for an Hour to Pray, some were for giving it him, and others against it; one of the Persons who was of the Negative side, being pretty strenious, Paul Swore he would be even

with him sometime or other; upon which they took hold of his Tongue, and going to Cut it missed it, and Cut his under Lip off; they then cut his Buttocks in several Places, and his Privities off, of which wounds he died; they then tyed a Rope about his Neck and dragged him from the Watch-House to Weavers-Square , where they hung him on a Tree, where he hung from Eleven at Night, till 12 a Clock the next Day. There were two other Persons who followed the same Practice, which they resolved to serve in the same manner; whose Names were, Tim Kennedy , a Bayliff , an Mat. Meakins , a Constable , Kennedy they met, and used him in such a manner, that they left him for Dead, for near two Hours; but his recovering himself again, brought them to the resolution of Hanging the first of the three that they met with.

The following is the Copy of a Letter which he wrote with his own Hand, with this Direction.

To Mr. William Davis at the Sign of the White Sheafe , in St. Patrick-street , near Patrick's-Church , Dublin , in Ireland , with Care.

May 22d, 1736.

YOU blind squinty Son of a Hore, how durst you heave the Impedence to report upon me that I was hanged. I I gave you a nough all ready, but if I did not, I hope I will before I am much older; you and Billy Williams , and Guiss, you are all three Roagues, and I will meake Roagues of you very soon I hope. I heave heard from Dublin how you expoessed me there, you shall know very soon whether I am hanged or us, for the next Time I teake you in Hand, I will serve you and the rest of your Curst Crew, as the mad Bulls is served, so I will you aspesily, that is, hgh's you; no more at present, but Dm you and your Curst Funkson all together; go and tell my Mother now that I am not hanged yet, to meake you a Lyer very soon I will. No more,

From your Cusin,

GEO. WARD .

Direct your Letter to me at the Heens-Tooth, a Catts-Feather, near the Royal-Exchange , London .

A Paper intended (in Case he died) to have been deliver'd at the Place of Execution by Mr. Wreathocke the Attorney.

My Dear Countrymen,

I Have little Time to spare, a great Work to do, my Dissolution is at Hand. I am going to pay a Debt to

Nature, due from all the World; I go before, you must follow after, the Time and Manner is alone uncertain: Some are carried off in Frenzies, others in burning Fevers; some by racking and tormenting Pains; others by lingring Consumptions, and various other ways, according to the Will of Divine Providence: Mine is indeed (as many others have been, and will no doubt be) attended with Violence and Ignominy. My great Comfort and Satisfaction is, that I am wholly innocent of the Offence for which I die, as I hope for Mercy from the Almighty at the great Tribunal, when the Hearts of all shall be open'd, and every one receive a just due Demerit. I do from my Heart (as I hope for the Remission at the last) forgive the Justice, the Dr. the Evidence, the surviving Eleven of the Jury, by whom I was convicted, and all others of what Denomination soever, who have any ways been concern'd, or aiding in pursuing me to Death. God give them all a due Sense of their Sins. May they live long to Repent, and Die in Peace, and receive Mercy at the last. My Time hath since my Conviction, been greatly employ'd in the Care of my Soul, and I hope, and doubt not of receiving Benefit thereby, thro' the Merits and Intercession of my Dear Sur and Redeemer Jesus Christ in whom alone I put my whole Trust.

Some Expressions here not proper to be inserted * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * My Defence was just * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * and I doubt not, but a little Tim will bring forth to the World, the true Source and Origin of it. I declare, as I am a dying Man, I never saw Brown 'till the 27th of June last, to the best of my Remembrance, Recollection and Belief. I never saw the Doctors, or his Ladies Watch: I never hired any to kill him, nor ever laid in wait to shoot the Justice, Stories fit for Children, like Raw-head and Bloody-bones; and can, I am thoroughly assured, have no Weight with the Ingenuous and Judicious, and are only here taken Notice of by me for the Sake of the Ignorant and Unwary, who can alone be captivated by the prejudiced and iniquitous. God grant long Life and Prosperity to my King and Royal Family; Peace and Tranquility to my Country, and a full Enjoyment of their Liberties, and due Execution of the Laws. The Lord Pardon all my Sins; I forgive all the World, the Lord have Mercy on my Soul. Adieu.

May 17, 1736.

William Wreathocke .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Newly Publish'd.

The FIFTEENTH EDITION of

ONANIA Or, the Heinous Sin of Self Pollution, and all its frightful Consequences, (in both Sexes) considered, with Spiritual and Physical Advice to those who have already injured themselves by this abominable Practice.

the Sixth Edition of the Supplement to it both Revised, and Enlarged, and now Printed together one Volume.

And the several Passages in the former Impressions, the have bèen charged with being obscure, and ambiguous are in these cleared up, and explained, there will be no more alterations or Additions made to them.

These Editions contain some further and surprizing Instances of the Mischiefs by that filthy, sinful Commerce with ones self, which is so notoriously practised as well by the Adult as Youth, Women as Men, Married as Single, to the weakening their Generative Faculties, and hindering Procreation, as their Letter of Complaints to the Author herein inserted, shew.

And, amongst others, tter from a a Lad, Lecurion with the Author's Answer to it, concerning the Life and abuse of the Marriage-Bed; together with dirs and other Letters from both Sexes, of some secret unnatural Estminaces, necessary to be known both by the Married and single of each Sex.

To which is ADDED,

Aurious PIECE, translated out of the Ls from L. S. SCKEMIDER, as it is inserted in the Act a Lipciensia, concerning the Return of the Seed into the Mass of Blood; well worth the Perusal of Physicians, Surgeons, Anatomists, and other Arts and Curiosity.

As also Dr. QUINCY's Translation of Dr. CARR's remarkable Answer to a Letter sent by a Divine, concerning two Nuns of Rome, reported to have changed their Sex.

Likewise Dr. DRAKE's and several other Physicians Opinions of Hermaphrodites, and Women brought to a Resemblance of them, by the Practice of Self Pollution, as was the Case of a young Lady of 18, whose well wrote Letter to the Author describing and lamenting her Condition, is (in order to deter others) inserted.

A very grave and learned Divine and Physician having perused this Discourse, before it went to Press returned it with his Opinion of it in these Words.

' This little Book ought to be read by all Sorts of 'People of both Sexes of what Age, Degree, Profession, or Condition soever, guilty, or not guilty of 'the Sin declaimed against it.

It is now Sold only by J. ISTED, Bookseller, (Mr. Crouch, Bookseller in Pater-Noster-Row being dead) at the Golden Ball between St. Dunstan's Church and Chancery-Lane, in Fleet-street. Price Stich'd 3 s. Bound 3 s. 6 d.

Where may be had.

The SUPPLEMENT, by itself, Price stich'd 1 s 6 d.

The Royal Anodyne British TINCTURE, OR, Pain-easing Medicine.

THIS Medicine receives its Name from the admirable Faculty which it hath in giving immediate Relief in all manner of Pains; and this it performs by outward sing as we has inward taking. It is the most certain and speedy Cure to be depended upon for the Cholick, and all Oppressions of Wind lodged in any Part of the Body, discharging of it to a wonderful Degree; and as it powerfully opens Obstructions of the whole Body, of is admirably prevents Putrefaction of Humours, and the Seeds, of all malignant Diseases; as Diarrhaea, Gripes, Pains of the Stomach and Bowels; the Plurify, Stiches or Pains of the Side, Back, Loins; or any other Part of the Body: Likewise Arthaitick pains; good against the Gout, whether in the Hands or Feet; Rheumatism, and all Rheumatick Ailments, proceeding either from Cold, external Violence, or Sharpness of Humours; it gives Relief when all other Remedies have proved ineffectual: It is excellent against the Stone, Strangury, and Gravel; Ulcers in the Reins and Bladder; stirs up the expulsive Faculty, for expelling such tartarous Matter as many times is the Occasion of the forementioned Distempers, not acting by Stupefaction (as Opiates) but by a friendly balsamick and subtile Nature, carrying off the Cause not by Purging, but by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind; being a choice Chymical Preparation, extracted from the Life of Plants and Minerals, endued with a kind and subtile Nature, penetrating in an Instant into the secret Recesses, of the Body, causing all Pains to vanish as Darkness at the sudden Approach of Light.

Prepared and sold by the Author (Dr. HENRY) at the Sign of the Two Dragons, the fourth House on the Righ Hand in Hatton-Garden, next Holbourn; where any Shop-Keepers may be furnished, with Allowance to sell again, by his Order: Also sold at Mr. Greg's, Bookseller, next Northumberland-House, Charing-Cross, at Mr. Neal's, against the White-Hart Inn in the Borough of Southwark; at Mr. Wilkenson's, at the Mitre in Jewin-street, near Aldersgate-street; at Mr. Dodson's Toyshop, at the Seven Stars against the Pump within Aldgate, at one Shilling a Bottle, sealed with two Dragons and the Author's Name, as above.

Note, The Doctor Cures Convulsions of any sort in Men Women and Children; all Hesterick Fits, Vertigo, Megrem, Falling-sickness, Appoplexie, the Epilipsey St Vituses Dance, and many more terrible sorts of this Distemper. I have Conveniency in my House for any Patient, and for the Benefit of them that is at a Distance, I sell the Quart Bottle of the Medicine, and a paper of powder, for half a Guinea, and keep its Virtue in any Climate, which as soon as taken, discharges the worst of all Fits whatsoever; and any that makes doubt, shall be directed to Persons of the best Fashion I have cured.

