THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 16th of this Instant June, 1731.

BEING THE Fourth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq;

Number IV. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court, near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street , M.DCC.XXXI.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq; Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Hon. Mr. Justice Page; the Hon. Mr. Baron Carter; the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson; Recorder of the City of London; Mr. Serjeant Ulin, Deputy Recorder; and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, being the 2d, 3d, and 4th, of June, 1731, in the Fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. William Burrows , Robert Cooper , Samuel Curlis , Thomas Martin , and Charles Oglesbay , and one Woman, viz. Elizabeth Corner , were by the Jury Convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

When under Sentence they were instructed from Col. ii. 6. " As " ye have therefore received Christ " Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in " him. " From which Text I took Occasion to explain to 'em the Necessity of Faith in Christ, which must not be a dead Faith, but attended with good Works, bringing forth manifold Fruits unto new Obedience, Holiness and Virtue, not consisting in empty speculative Notions, as some are too apt to explain it, but affecting the Heart with heavenly

divine Thoughts, truly becoming God and Religion, and working a thorough Reformation upon the whole Man; so that he becomes wholly a new Creature, holy in Heart and Life, Dedicating himself, without Reserve, Soul and Body, unto the Service of God. From Acts, iii. 19. " Repent ye therefore " and be Converted, that your " Sins may be Blotted out, when " the Times of refreshing shall " come from the Presence of the " Lord. " They were taught the Native of true Repentance, which consisteth partly in an hearty, unfeigned Sorrow for Sin, not because of the Inconveniencies and Calamities it brings upon us; but because of the Offence thereby given to Almighty God in whom it is we live, move and from whom we have all our Being, who is daily loading us with his Benefits, and preventing us with his Blessings; and therefore we should be grieved because we have offended so good and gracious a God, such a tender, loving and indulgent a Father: Then I show'd them that true Repentance mainly consists in forsaking all Sin without any exception, especially those Sins which are more henious in the Sight of God then others, and for which Men void of Virtue and Goodness commonly come to Shame and Disgrace: And as by Repentance they must forsake Sin, so as to loath, detest and abhor themselves in Dust and Ashes because of it; so I inform'd them, that they must turn unto God with all their Hearts, they must be Holy as God is Holy, and Blameless in all Manner of Life and Conversation; whereas formerly they had been the Servants of Sin unto Unrighteousness, henceforth they must become the obedient Servants of Righteousness unto Holiness, approving themselves with Consciences void of Offence, towards God, and towards Man; and resolving by the Grace of God, if they had been to continue any longer in this World, to become New-Creatures, having their Conversation in Heaven, looking unto Jesus, the Author and Finisher of our Faith, &c. I taught them some Things relating to Justice and Equity between Man and Man, and that the Laws enacted against Thieves and Robbers were most necessary for the Conservation of humane Society, without which no Order or Regularity in the World could subsist, and that therefore it was their Duty, to submit to the Execution of the Sentence past upon them, since by such villainous Practices they had

declar'd themselves Enemies to all Mankind, and render'd themselves obnoxious to undergo the Penalty of Law, which is no less than Capital in all Nations; and more particularly, since House-breaking, Attacking of People on the Highways and Street, and most of the different Kinds of Thefts were (in a Manner) Sins equal to Murder, as is frequently seen by the fatal Consequences of those Attempts; for how many have been left Dead upon the Spot, cruelly and barbarously Murder'd by such vile Assassins, common and avow'd Enemies to God and all Mankind? I exhorted 'em not to despair of the divine Mercy, which is infinite, but to Repent sincerely of all his Sins, particularly those of which they were Convicted, as having not only been an unjust Invasion upon the Goods and Properties of other Men, but likewise an intended Murder upon their Persons, in Case of the least Opposition being made to them in their villainous Attempts; to place their whole Confidence in the Goodness of God thro' Christ, who has declar'd, yea proclam'd himself, " The Lord, the Lord God, Merciful and Gracious, Long-suffering, and Abundant in Goodness " and Truth, keeping Mercy for " Thousands, forgiving Iniquity and " Transgression, and Sin, and that " will by no Means clear the " Guilty; visiting the Iniquity of " the Fathers upon the Children, " and upon the Childrens Children, " unto the Third and Fourth Generation. " Exod. xxxiv. 6, 7.

They were also instructed in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments; and how greatly they had been Guilty of Breaking their Baptismal Vows, particularly, in committing those henious Sins, of violently Robbing other Men of their Goods, to which they could lay no Tittle or Claim whatsoever, which sinful Course of Life had brought them to Shame and Disgrace, and loaded them with manifold Sorrows and Anguish of Mind. From these Words, " This do in Remembrance of me. St. Luke, 22. 19. I exhorted them to prepare for receiving the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, as an assured pledge of their obtaining everlasting Life, if they sincerely Repented of all their Sins, and believ'd in out Lord Jesus Christ their only Saviour, with an unfeigned Faith, exerting it self in the peaceable Fruits of Righteousness, which are to the glory and praise of God.

When these, and many other Exortations were given, they attended in Chapel, and behav'd gravely, and to appearance devoutly. Charles Oglesbay Martin and Curlis, made regular Responces; the other three could not read, but were very attentive. Cooper was very Sick, and excepting two Days, confin'd to his Bed in the Cell all the Time; when I visited him, he always declar'd that he was very Penitent.

The Dead Warrant coming out a little sooner than they expected, they were mightily surprized, and appeared to be much more affected than formerly, and they shed abundance of Tears; only Mr. Oglesbay did not seem to be much moved, He, by a continual habit of Religious exercise and Meditations, having brought himself into a Conformity and Submission to the divine Will.

On Saturday the 12th Instant, the Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the six Malefactors under Sentence of Death in Newgate , when Thomas Martin , and Elizabeth Corner , for assaulting William Catesby , in a certain Field, and open Place near the King's Highway, putting him in fear of his Life, and taking from him 40 Guineas and 24 Shillings in Money, the 8th of May last, received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining four, viz. William Burroughs , Robert Cooper , Sam. Curlis and Charles Oglesbay were ordered for Execution.

Charles Oglesbay (and another Man who was acquitted) of the Parish of Belfond , was Indicted for assaulting Priscilla Scott , Wife of Edward Scott , on the Highway, putting her in fear of her Life, and taking from her a Snuff box, value 10 s. a Silk House wife, and six Shillings in Money, the 11th of May last.

I. Charles Oglesbay , 26 Years of Age, descended of honest respected Parents in Brentford , who gave him good education at School, in reading, writing, Accompts, and what other accomplishments were necessary to fit him for business. He was bred to the Trade of making Heels for Shoes , and (as he said) got sufficiently, whereby to Maintain himself, if he had not been extravagant, and could not confine himself to any honest, industrious and sober way. He married a Wife, by whom he had Children, and whom he commended for a virtuous Woman. By living a little above his Rank, or spending more than what was Needful, he contracted a Debt of forty or fifty Pounds, he knew that Writs were issu'd out against him for these Debts, and was afraid of Imprisonment, for which Cause he went beyond Sea, and liv'd in New-York above a Year, where he got very good Business in his Employment, and wanted for nothing, so that he could have settl'd in that Country, which he commended for a pleasant, plentiful and fine Place, had he not been Married to a Wife whom he lov'd and long'd

to see; and then he hearing that there was an Act of Grace for the Discharge of small Debts, he came home intending to take the Benefit of the said Act. When he came home, no Person offer'd to molest him about his Debts, but all his Creditors suffer'd him to live in Peace, and to follow his Employment. Although he was abundantly Happy for a Man of his Circumstances, in living comfortable with his Wife, and of his own, and her Relations, yet he could not be satisfy'd; but being too much addicted to Idleness, he associated himself with bad Company, who prov'd his Ruin, and brought him to a shameful End. He own'd the Fact he was convicted of, in Robbing Mrs. Scott on the Highway, as was sworn against him, according to the Indictment: but said that he never was guilty of any Theft or Highway Robberies whatsoever, excepting that for which he died, and that he was advised by his Partner (who had the good Luck to get off for want of Proof) to set about such desperately wicked Attempts. Some People gave it out, that he was taken up at Exeter, upon Suspicion of being concern'd in Highway Robberies, but that he got off that Scrape by some means; and likewise it was said he was Transported upon another Account. He said, all this was wholly False, and that he was never guilty of, nor taken up for any Crime in his Life, save the one he died for; and that he had never been Thief nor Robber, excepting that single Instance for which he suffer'd; and that he went Abroad to New-York of his own Accord, to save himself from being imprison'd for Debt, and return'd again when he thought the Danger ever. He had Relations capable and willing to do for him, but having been a cross disobedient young Man, and not willing to comply with any of their good Advices, they disown'd, and would at last do nothing for him. He attended constantly in Chappel, made regular Responses, appeared very devout and often shed Tears. He had many devotional Books, and gave Money to buy some, which was done as he desir'd. When the Cell Door was open'd, he was always found upon his Knees praying very devoutly and seriously. He seem'd to be a young Man of good Sense and capable of his Business; but Covetousness, Bad Company, and Idleness ruin'd him, and brought him to an Exit full of Shame and Disgrace. A Gentleman desired me to ask him, If between Whimble-Green and Two Mile stone , he robb'd a Gentleman and Gentlewoman in a Chaise, and a Servant on Horse-back? He declared, as he was to answer to God, he did not do it, and that he knew nothing of it. On Sunday the 13th Instant, his Wife, Sister, and two young Brothers came to visit him as he was in Chappel. At first Meeting they all wept bitterly, and he sympathized with 'em, but was no ways disturb'd in his Devotion. On Tuesday, being the

Day before he died, when he saw his Father and Mother, he fell on his Knees to them; and altho' they with his Father-in-law, his Sister, and some others who came to visit him, cried, and shed Tears for him, yet he was not much moved, but look'd indifferent, and spoke but little to them. He was devout, penitent, and resign'd to the Will of God; and declar'd, if he had been spar'd, that he was fully resolved to lead a new Life. I have not seen any Person in his distress'd Circumstances behave more christianly and devoutly than he did: He believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, was a sincere Penitent for all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Robert Cooper , of the Hamlet of Mile-end Old-town , in the Parish of Stepney , Victualler , was Indicted for that he did falsely and feloniously make, or cause to be made, a Bond for the Sum of 25 l. under the Hand of William Holme , of Hanover-Square , Grocer , and the same did utter contrary to the Statute in that case made and provided.

2. Robert Cooper , 50 years of Age, born in Hampshire of honest, but mean Parents, who were not in a capacity to give him Learning, was of no particular Trade, but did Country-work , and serv'd Gentlemen , having been seven Years in one Family, and five in another, as he said, where he had always the character of an honest Man, and was respected as such by his Masters. He married a Wife and had Children, who are all dead but one poor Girl of 12 years Old, who visited him sometimes in his greatest distress. He said he Rented a House of forty pounds a year in HanoverSquare eighteen Years, and that he liv'd very well there, by keeping a Publick-house and letting of Lodgings . But two or three Years ago his Wife dying, He was obliged to give over that Business, and betake himself to a more private way of Life, by applying himself to work in Gardens about Deptford and Greenwich , and at other times by working by the River-side ; and by this means he said he provided very well for himself and his Daughter. He liv'd always regularly and soberly, and kept his Credit, by paying every Man his own. He went to Church sometimes, but was too negligent in that respect, by being more anxious about the affairs of this World, than what was needful. He was not given to Drinking, Swearing, nor addicted to Women, as most of these unhappy People commonly are. As to the unlucky affair for which he died, he said, he could neither read nor write, and that he lent nine Guineas to a Man who gave him the Bond in the Indictment for his Security, which he out of Ignorance accepted of, and afterwards by the same Advice, he seeking to have his Money advanc'd upon the Credit of that Bond, and Mr. Holme knowing he had never given any such Obligation,

Cooper was taken up, and they prov'd the Forgery plainly upon him, as being done by his Direction and Advice, though he was altogether Illiterate. He said, when he gave up Housekeeping, he had a handsome Sum of Money by him, and that it was not for Poverty, but want of a Wife to look after his Affairs, that he gave over publick Business; and that since that time, he had left him above forty Guineas by the Death of a Brother, and when he was taken up, he had twenty-six Pounds at Sea, but all this Money he could give no Account of, and knew not if his Friends might recover any of it. He was so afflicted with Sickness all the Time he was under Sentence, that he could not speak much, and at last he turn'd quite crazy and light-headed, and lay in the Cell in a most miserable Condition, stark-naked, after he had thrown off and torn his Cloaths; till within a day or two of his Death he recover'd a little, and was capable to give some Account of himself. He always declar'd himself very Penitent for all the Sins of his Life; that he believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, through whose Merits he hop'd for Salvation; and that he forgave all the injuries done him, as he expected forgiveness from God.

William Burroughs , of St. Giles's in the Fields , was indicted for assaulting Edward Allen , on the King's Highway, putting him in fear, and taking from him Eighteen-Pence in Silver, Three-pence in Half-pence, and his Hat, the 26th of May last.

3. William Burroughs , 22 years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Giles's , of mean Parents, who gave him no education at School, but brought him up to a pitiful idle Life, and let him run about the Streets as he pleased; as soon as he was able to do it; his great delight was in riding and watering of Horses, and in being about Stables, where (it seems) he learn'd but a few good Lessons, though he was very ready to take up abundance of bad, which hurried him apace to his destruction.

When he was six or seven years of Age he was a Postilion , and rode as a Post-Boy with Letters, and when a little more advanc'd in Years, he was Postilion to Baron Swasso for some Years.

When he was out of that business, he drove hackney Coaches , and by that means fell into that dreadful Society of Gin-drinkers, Whores, Thieves, House-breakers, Street-robbers, Pick-pockets, and the whole train of the most notable Black guards in and about London , and what advances he made in Virtue and good Manners in such a famous School, the World may easily judge.

He own'd that he had been guilty of many outrageous Crimes, in Whoring, Drinking to excess, Cursing,

Swearing and Blaspheming, Picking of Pockets, Pilfering and Thieving, Robbing in the Streets, House-breaking, and the other as commendable Arts, which are commonly taught and practis'd by such Masters as he applied himself to.

He own'd in General, that he was a Stranger scarce to any Vice, but that he was acquainted with no Virtue, and that few Sins, save Murder, could be Nam'd, which he had not been partaker of in some Degree; but he could not be persuaded to descend to particular Confessions.

He had scarce ever gone to Church, and was very ignorant in religious Matters, yet he knew a little of the first Principles, and I endeavour'd to instruct him so far as the Shortness of Time will allow.

He profest Penitence, and behav'd as well as could be expected from a Man of his Education, but not with that Seriousness as became one in his pitiful Condition.

After the Dead Warrant came down, he fell into the most lamentable Agitations, but he constantly Praying to God in his Cell, crying out for Mercy in short extempore Petitions, as he could, without Book.

As to the Fact he was Convicted of, he own'd that he was in Company with the Street-Robbers, but knew nothing of their Intentions that Night, and that he did not Attack the Coach, but that he stood at a Distance while the rest robb'd the Man; and in confidence of his being innocent in Part, he stood still till they apprehended him, while the rest of them made their Escape; and when he was in Custody, he would not inform against his Associates, although they say, that now two of them are taken, and one of them has undertaken to give Evidence against the other.

He declar'd his Faith in Christ his Saviour, that he was Penitent for the Offences of his Life and died in Peace with all the World.

Samuel Curlis , of St. Sepulchres , was Indicted for feloniously stealing a Mare, Value 3 l. the Property of a Person unknown, the 21st of April last.

4. Samuel Curlis , 31 Years of Age, Born at Malden in Sussex , of Honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School in Reading, Writing, and Accompts to fit him for Business, and instructed him in Christian Principles; and when of Age he learn'd his Father's Trade of a Taylor , in which when he had acquir'd some Experience, he came to Town and applied himself to Journey-work, and (as he said) liv'd honestly; and some Years ago he Married a Widow on the other side of the Water, to whom he was a good Husband; and

they liv'd peaceably together and wanted nothing, till about a Year and a half, or two Years ago, both of them turn'd Valetudinary, and then they fell into some Distress.

Three or four Years ago he listed himself a Soldier in the first Regiment of Guards, in which Station (as he said) he serv'd to the Satisfaction of his Officers.

He was not inclin'd to the common Vices of Drinking, Whoring, Blaspheming, &c. which are usually the Bane of those who fall into those fatal Misfortunes.

He went to Church, and took the Sacrament once, when he was Young and before he left the Country.

He kept a regular Family, and provided carefully for his Wife and Children. Lately he went to the Country to visit his Father and Relations, and when he was upon his return homewards, he begg'd a Horse from his father, and his Brother said, Sam. You may take my Mare on the Common, and dispose of it as you Please and Welcome.

He told him the Height, the Colour, the Spots and Marks of the Mare: Curlis saw a Mare upon the Common of the same dimensions, &c. as his Brother describ'd his, and carried her away for his Brother's, and sold her at Croyden ; but before the Payment was compleated, the fraud was found out that the Beast was stolen

This is the Account he constantly gave, although when he was first taken up, he made silly excuses, and said he found the Mare in a Lane, which was acknowledging that he stole the Mare.

The Monday Morning before he died, having sate up all Night, he falling a sleep a Minute or two, and when he awak'd suddenly, he saw one of the side Walls of the Cell, all written in Roman Letters; he ask'd if it was an ill Sign? I thought it was a warning like the Hand-writing upon a Wall.

He cry'd much after all hopes of Life were over. He believ'd in Christ his Saviour, repented carefully of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

The following Letter was sent by Samuel Curlis to his Father at Malding in Sussex , the Night before his Execution; which is as follows, viz.

Newgate June the 15, 1731.

Honoured Father,

I Beg for Jesus Christ's Sake, it being the last request of a dying Man; I am to dye To-morrow, and I cannot have the satisfaction of seeing you my Self, before I leave this sinful World; let me beg of you to do a Fatherley action to a poor unfortunate young Man, who is cut off just in his Prime. And dear Father, Commiserate the loss my unhappy Wife will have, and my poor Daughter, which makes my Heart bleed within me, that I am oblidg'd to leave them so Miserable and the want of Bread, Friends or Money. Consider dear Father, that there is a just God above, that will Reward you for what you assist my poor distressed Wife and Child withal when I am gone; but permit me to request the last favour that I can ask, which is, that you would forgive whatever you have seen amiss in me; I likewise request it of my dear Mother, that you would see me Buyed; for as my poor Wife has not where, withall to Bury me; I beg that the ever blessed Jesus will inspire in you such a charitable Act to him, who is Flesh of your Flesh, and Bone of your Bone; I hope my dear Mother will consider that she bore me, and gave me Milk for my Sustenance, when I was not capable of helping my Self let the bitter Cries of our crucyfied Saviour move you to some compassion in my behalf, and consider that had you a Heart of Stone it would bleed, to se the cruel Usage I have had, but God alone knows that, and that I forgive all those that have sought to do me Evil, I bless them also; that have done me good; permit me, dear Father, to tell you that my Body will be sent down to you, which I hope you will take care of at the request of a dying Man, and accept of the Prayers of him, who always has done his endeavours to be Dutiful to you; and dear Mother, may the great God of his infinite Goodness and Mercy through Jesus Christ; Sanctifie and prosper your Endeavours, and grant you length of Days in Prosperity; and my dear Brother and Sisters, hoping that we shall meet again in Heavenly Glory, which is the hearty and sincere Prayer of

Your Dutiful Son, at the point of Death,

SAMUEL CURLIS .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

FEW Persons upon this dreadful Occasion, have given greater Testimonies of being sincere Penitents, than those Poor Creatures, whom we have been speaking of.

They went in two Carts, and before Curlis went out of that, in which he came, into that, in which he was to Die, he kneel'd down and Pray'd with great fervency.

Mr. Oglebay, after he was tyed up, he embrac'd his Father-in-Law with the most tender Affection, and declared that being heartily weary of so sinful and deprav'd a World; He had no reluctance in leaving it, or any thing in it, except his Loving and every way deserving Wife.

Indeed, as far as we can decide from Circumstances and Appearance; His behaviour under his Sentence, and the steadiness of his Countenance, which never changed to the last, he did in no ways fear Death, for which, as well the shortness of Time would allow, he with great diligence had Prepar'd.

Mr. Oglebay, call'd for the Brentford-men to come up and

Speak to him. The Officers made way, and some Men rode up, to whom he addressed himself to this purpose: " That they should not reflect upon his Father's or " his Father in Law's Family, " or his Wife on his Account, since none of them " knew any thing of his " Crimes. He said also, " that his Comrade advis'd " and press'd upon him to " go on the High-way; He " said further, that he had " never followed those wicked courses before, and " hoped they would entertain charitable thoughts of " him. " They promis'd not to reflect any ways upon his Relations upon his Account.

" He likewise said, he " heartily forgave all his " Enemies, and doubted not " but God would receive " him into everlasting rest, " having sincerely repented " of all his Sins. "

Burroughs had no more to add to his Confessions, only he wept bitterly, and earnestly cryed to God for Mercy.

Cooper made some tart reflections, and said, he was impos'd upon in the matter of the Bond, but that he heartily forgave all Men, &c.

Curlis would not say that his Fact about the Mare was true, so its to be doubted of.

They were all very devout at Prayers, and desired the Lamentation of a Sinner to be Sung, which was done accordingly.

Just before they went off, Mr. Oglebay cry'd out, come

Lord Jesus, I come to thee; O my sweet heavenly Saviour, I come to thee, Lord Jesus my sweet Saviour, receive my Soul. He spoke aloud to this purpose, as if he had been in a Rapture.

In all appearance he died a true sincere Penitent. They all went out of this World, crying to God to have Mercy upon their Souls, and the Lord Jesus receive our Spirits.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Dr. Richard Rock 's never failing TINCTURE for curing the TEETH.

Which by once or twice using, cleanses the blackest or foulest Teeth, beyond Expression, by eradicating those scorbutick scurvy Humours, which are the Occasion thereof; and gives immediate Ease to those who are afflicted with the Tooth ach, and prevents the Return of that most violent Pain; by preserving those Teeth that are growing rotten, and fastening others that are loose. It is prevailing in those Persons that are nauseated with an ill-scented Breath, by reason it is such an Enemy to the Scurvy, that it eradicates the whole, by cleansing the Teeth and Gums, so immediately as if by Inchantment.

To be had only at the Hand and Face , near Bluck-Friers Stairs , and at the Rainbow Coffee-House , near Fleet-Bridge .

Price one Shilling, with Directions.

At the same Places is to be had, his most excellent Chymical Liquor for curing the ITCH and such other Breaking, out of the Skin, which are Symptoms of that most filthy, nauseous, and infective Distemper.

Price 1s. 6 d. per Bottle, with Directions.

N. B. It is so cleanly a Composition, that it does not Stain the finest Linnen.

The wonderful Cures in the TEETH, perform'd by the said Dr. Rock, will be attested by a Clergyman living near Fleet-Bridge, who was so violently afflicted with the TOOTH ACH, that it occasion'd a great swelling in his Face, and having made Use of several Medicines to no Purpose; had a Tooth displaced by a noted Operator; but the Pain still increasing, occasion'd an Uneasiness in his Head, and a violent Pain in his Ears: A Gentleman living at the Rainbow Coffeehouse, near Fleet-Bridge, advised him to make Use of this excellent TINCTURE of Dr. Rock's, he having had a Child cured of sore Gums and Pain of the Teeth, by the said Medicines. It gave him ease in a Moment, and in 6 Hours the Swelling abated, and the Pain of his Head and Ears ceased, and he is now in perfect Health.

Those that are not willing to Use the TINCTURE, may have their TEETH or STUMPS taken out with a Touch, or Scal'd to the greatest Perfection, and at a reasonable Expence, by the aforesaid Dr. Rock, who daily attends at his House in Black-Friers.

Where also may be had, Dr. PITCAIRN's universal purging ELIXIR, which cleanses the Body from all gross Humours, casion'd by hard Drinking: It is a sovereign Remedy for the Scurvy, Dropsy, Rheumatism, Black or Yellow Jaundies. Gripes, &c. and Removes all Obstructions in the Lungs; and never fails bringing away all Sorts of Worms from the Body of Men, Women, and Children, and cures Agues or intermitting Fevers, in less than 12 Hours after taking.

Price 1 s. each Bottle, with Directions.

No Family ought to be without this Medicine, it is proper to be taken Spring and Fall. It gives Relief in the Cholick or Pain of the Stomach, in less than a Minute, tho' of over so long standing and violent. Any Person is wellcome to take the Medicine in my Shop, and if they say that they find no ease, in the Cholick or Pain of the Stomach they shall not pay for the Medicine.

Advice for all Distempers, gratis, and cast your Water for six Pence. The ELIXIR is so safe, that Women with Child may take it.

At the aforesaid Place is to be had, Dr. Rock's WormPlaster, which being applied to the Pit of the Stomach, speedily destroys all Sorts of Worms, from the Body of Men, Women, and Children. Price 3d. with Directions.

This Day is Publish'd, The third Edition with Additions, of

A PRACTICAL TREATISE: Or, Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease, in Three Parts, viz.

I. On the Simple Gonorrhoea, Gleets, and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-pollution, improperly called Onanism, or natural Imbecility.

II. On the Virulent Gonorrhoea, or Clap.

III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox.

Wherein are plainly shew'd the exact Degrees of Difference; with their Signs, Symptoms, Prognosticks, and Cures in all Cases, their Beginnings, Progress and fatal Periods, when neglected or unskilfully managed; and how their absolute Cure, without Violence or Injury, is compleated.

With proper and effectual Remedies, in their several Stages, prescrib'd and recommended therein.

With some Remarks on that proposterous Way of Venery with Machines, &c. and a plain Discovery, of the Damages (though little expected) which attend that vile Practice.

Also many other useful Discoveries relating to Infections in both Sexes, not before taken Notice of.

To which is annex'd, a Vindication of the Practice of Salivating, &c. The Whole fitted, as well for the Advantage of Patients, as young Practitioners.

By JOSEPH CAM , M. D.

London, Printed for the Author; and Sold at his House, in Bow-Church Yard ; also by G. Scranhan in Cornhill ; E. Midwinter, in St. Paul's Church-Yard ; C. King, in WestminsterHall ; J. Hodges on London-Bridge ; and J. Nurse, at the Lamb without Temple-Bar .

Price stitch d 2 s, bound 2 s, 6 d

ADDRESS to the GENTLEMEN, By Dr. GREGORIUS, (Noted for his Skill in Surgery and Anatomy, as well as Physick and Chymistry.)

Who having observ'd the frequent Advertisements in the News Papers, of one and another Single Medicine, said to cure all Sorts of Gleets, and Seminal Weaknesses, which their Authors confound together, as if there were no Difference between them, has been prevail'd upon, by his Friends, in this Publick Manner, to inform, and undeceive those who have unwarily been brought into either, (or both together, as it sometimes happens) of these perplexing, draining Imbecilities.

That where the Gleeting is only from a Laxity of the Glands in the Urethra, what leaks and drills away insensibly from them, through the Urinary Passage, and spots or smears the Linnen, though it be yellowish, yet being without Pain, or any ill-condition'd Disorder, is no more than Mucus, and must be cured one Way.

And where it is a Seminal Weakness, that which slips away involuntarily, though it be thin, watery, and unelaborate, either by itself, in the Day-time, or a Nights too frequently, or profusely in the Sleep, or with the Upine, or upon Stool, whether from an Acrimony, or Deravity of the Juices, or by over straining the Spematick Vessels; or both, is Seed, and is to be remedied another, inasmuch, as that Medicine which will cure the one, will not cure the other, and (vice versa) as every Practitioner that knows the Nature, Make, and different Situation of the Parts ministring to Generation, will allow; and that for want of this due Distinction, and right Application, it is, that so many People are disappointed of Cure; and by Continuance of the Gleetings, are drain'd, as they are, into Impotencies, or Infertilities, which as it hinders their Marrying, gives them great Anxiety, and the more, when attended, as in some, with Pain and Weakness in the Back and Reins; or as, in others, with Difficulty, or Dribblings of the Urine in, or after making it, which at Length comes away either foul, sharp, slimy, or of an ill Smell.

As this is so in Fact, and the Doctor well known to have experienc'd, in numberless Instances, the noble and never failing Effects of Two particular Balsamick Electuaries, which he spared no Pains or Expence to find out, the one to restrain the Mucus, and the other, the involuntary shedding of the Seed, by their respectively bracing up the Fibres, and restoring the Tone and Springiness of the relaxed Glands and Seminals, invigorating the Genitals, and fertilizing the Seed, was also perswaded to recommend their Use, that those, who, for a long while together, had tried other Medicines for the same Weaknesses, and by their not succeeding, concluded themselves incurable, might be convinc'd by their speedy Amendment and Recovery by these, that it was not the Incurability of their Malady, but the wrong Method they had been in for Cure,

But yet, in either of the said Two Weaknesses, or where it happens that they are complicated, and have proceeded, either from Self-Abuses, excessive, or over straining Coitions, or from over Purgations in Venereal Cures, or any other Cause, as a Flux of Humours generally falls down and settles upon all weakened Parts, rendering them still the weaker, and these tender nervous Parts more especially: The first Step to be taken in order to make way for a regular and substantial Cure, (and without which it is not to be accomplished) must, in a pecular Manner, be to correct, and gently divert those Humours; and the only Medicine he could ever rely upon to do this effectually, that is to overcome the Cause, and introduce the Cure of the most difficult of these Weaknesses, (even where the Vessels had been obstructed, Manhood greatly enfeebl'd, and in some, well nigh extinct, or at least not able to touch a Woman but ad primum labiorum contactum, semen emittunt; has been his Preparing Pills, of which when the Patient has taken only three Doses, at due Distances he is to begin (and not before) with one or t'other (or both together, as the Case may chance to be) of the said Two Electuaries, which how to distinguish in, and proceed with, the printed Directions, wrap'd up with the Pills, do so plainly shew, that no Persons, even the meanest Capacities, can be any Loss to understand them; but will, by their observing the easy Rules thee in laid down, have their Blood, and whole Body, we cleans'd and purified, the debilated Parts strengthened and by Degrees, compleatly, and lastingly invigorate and restored, so as to be enabled quickly, and safely Marry, without the least Need of any further, or othe Advice or Medicine.

They are to be had, Price 7 s. 6 d. the Box, ready to be deliver'd to any Messenger, upon only for, A Box of Pills, at Mr. Payne's, a Booketter, at Crown, facing the Chapter Coffee-house, in Paternoter Row.

Note, The said Two Electuaries, viz, Numb, 1, Gleets, and Numb. 2, for Seminal and Genital Weaknesses, are to be had there also, Price 7 s. 6 d. each and are likewise sealed up: and to be asked for by Electuary Number 1, or Electuary Number 2,

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Applebee , in Bolt Court, near the Leg Tavern in Fleet-Street .

I. The Life of Catherine Hayes (who was Executed at Tyburn on the 9th of May, 1726, for the barbarous Murder of her Husband) giving a true and perfect Account of her Parentage, Birth, Education, &c. from the Time of her Birth, to the Hour of her Death: Together with every minute Circumstance relating to that horrid Affair. To which is added, the Lives of Thomas Wood and Thomas Blings, the two Persons concern'd with her in committing the said Murder: the Whole taken from the Mouths of the several Criminals themselves, during their Confinement in Newgate. Price Six-pence.

II. An Account of all the Robberies, Escapes, &c. of John Sheppard , giving an exact Description of the manner of his wonderful Escape from the Castle in Newgate , and of the Methods he took afterwards for his Security. Written by himself during his Confinement in the middle Stone-Room, after his being re-taken in Drury-Lane . To which is prefix'd, a true Representation of his Escape from the Condemn'd Hold, curiously engraven on a Copper Plate. Price Six-pence.

III. A true and exact Account of the Lives of Edward Burnworth , alias Frasier , William Blewit , Thomas Berry , and Emanuel Dickenson , who were Executed at Kingston on the 6th of April 1726, for the barbarous Murder of Thomas Ball in St. George's Fields . Price Six-pence.

IV. A genuine Narative of the memorable Life and Actions of John Dyer , a notorious Highwayman and House breaker , who was Executed at Tyburn on Fryday the 21st of November 1729, Price Six-pence.

Dr. Nelson's most wonderful PANACEA, for the CONFIRM'D POX,

(And, all the Relicks or Remains of it in the Blood) which it infallibly eradicates, tho' of ever so long standing, it having been long experienc'd to be the only safe and sure Remedy for that hateful Distemper, that was ever known or discovered.

It curing so easily, and insensibly, as any Disorder it gives, Confinement it requires, or Suspicion it occasions, that it is admir'd and recommended all that have taken it, for it neither purges, vomits, nor salivates, but cures by its Alterative, Deobstruent, Antivenerea Qualities, insomuch that Children, and the weakest and most tender or crazy constitution'd People may take it at all times of the Year, and go about with it as if they had taken nothing, as may likewise those who have been brought near the Grave, by repeated) unsuccessful Salivations, or other violent, or too frequent Purgations, or Vomits; for it restores as well as clears the Blood, Head or whole Habit, of all the lurking poisonous Taint, and Mercury tho' never so secretly lodg'd in the Body; wherefore let none of those unfortunate People despair, but try it, and they will be comfortably convinc'd of the Truth of what is here said of it.

Persons who are pox'd to the last Degree, their whole Mass of Blood being contaminated, and have been told that nothing but a Salivation would Cure them, tho' they labour under tormenting Pains in the Head Limbs, or Joints; or have breakings out of Scabe Blotches, Boils, or Spots; or have Swellings, Nodes, Sores, or Ulcers, either in their Throat, Nose, or elsewhere, with weariness in the Limbs, Faintness and Weakness of the whole Body, &c. may intirely rely upon it, only, that according to the Degree of the Infection, they must take it and continue it for a longer or shorter Time.

Such as have only some Relicks of the Disease, or but suspect that their Blood has got a Smatch of the Taint, by some unusual Uneasinesses about them, which they now and then feel, either from ill manag'd Claps, or other doubtful Cures, should never venture to marry, if they are single, nor meddle with their Wives if marry'd, till they are sure they are safe, as they most certainly will be, upon their only taking a Pot or two of it.

It is also exceeding pleasant to take, as well as delightful in its effects; and cleanses, Nourishes and Restores, the foulest, most weakned and worn-out Constitutions.

Price 5 s. the Tin-pot, prepar'd only by the Doctor above said, and left by him, at Mr. sted's Bookseller at the Golden Ball, near St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street; where it may be had, by any Messenger, ready sealed up, with Directions how to take it, by only asking for a 5 s. Pot of the Panacea.

THE ROYAL COSMETICK;

To beautify and cleanse the Face, Neck, and Hands, and to preserve the Complection of Ladies and Others: Devised by several learned Physicians, and used by Queens, Princesses, and other Ladies of Quality, in Italy, Germany, France, and England.

WHich, for its excellent Virtues, exceeds all others, and beautifies the Face, Neck, and Hands, to the utmost Perfection, giving a charming Lustre and fine Air to the Features, rendering the Face delicately fair, plump, and smooth, though before ever so ordinary; instantly causing a youthful Fairness, to Admiration, making a Person look young though old; it makes rough and red Hands exceeding white and smooth, infallibly taking away Redness, Wrinkles, Pimples, Spots, Worms, Morphews, Sun-Burns, Heats, or any other Discolourings of the Skin. It nourishes, plumps, smooths, clears and softens the Skin to the last Degree. It likewise heals Chops of the Lips, Hands, and Arms to Admiration.

The Use of it is so clean, and it hath so pleasant a Flavour, that nothing can exceed it; and is therefore a most excellent Thing to preserve or regain a fine Skin and Complection.

Prepared and Sold by the Author, a Chymist, at his House; the second Door on the Right Hand in Bride-lane, near Fleetstreet; 'tis also Sold at Robotham's Toy-shop without Whitechappel Bars; at Mr. Neal's Toy-shop opposite the Whiteheart Inn in the Borough of South-wark; and at Mr. Grg's, Bookseller, next Northumber-land-house, Charing-cross.

Price 3 s. 6 d. a Bottle.

Where is also Sold,

FOR a certain CURE of the SCURVEY, and all SCORBUTICK HUMOURS, is recommended the Tincture Magnum, Anti-Scorbuticum: Or, The Grand Anti-Scorbutick Purging-Tincture of Scurvy Grass prepared after a new compendious Method, whereby is, made much more beneficial in purging the Blood of all salt brinish, and watery Humours, than any Preparation heretofore prepared of that Sovereign Herb; to be taken any Time of the Year, but more especially Spring and Fall.

At One Shilling a Battle.

