THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE SEVEN MALEFACTORS, Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the Sixth of AUGUST, 1753.

BEING THE Seventh EXECUTION in the Mayoralty OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir Crisp Gascoyne , Knt . LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER VI for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LIII.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir Crisp Gascoyne , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Lord Chief Justice Lee, Mr. Justice Clive, Mr. Baron Legge, William Moreton , Esq ; Recorder , and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer of the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-hall, in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 2d, Thursday the 3d, Friday the 4th, Saturday the 5th, and Monday the 7th of May, in the 26th Year of His Majesty's Reign, John Fish was capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly. And,

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, holden before the Right Honourable Sir Crisp Gascoyne , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London , Mr. Justice Dennison, Mr. Baron Smythe, William Moreton , Esq ; Recorder , and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer of the City of London, and Justices of

Jail-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-hall in the Old Bailey , on Thursday the 7th, Friday the 8th, Saturday the 9th of June, in the 26th Year of His Majesty's Reign, William Corbee , Robert Davis , Thomas Cullingham , Ann Ellis , John Ayliff , Peter Tickner , and Simon Smith were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly. And,

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir Crisp Gascoyne , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Lord Chief Baron Parker, Mr. Justice Foster, Mr. Baron Legge, William Moreton , Esq ; Recorder , and others of His Majesty's Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-hall in the Old Bailey , in the 27th Year of His Majesty's Reign, Millicent Clisby , Thomas Buckmore , Anne Robinson , Thomas Twinbrow , and James Williams were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

The Behaviour of all these unhappy People has been quiet and serious, their Attendance at Prayers in Chapel constant and daily, unless hindered by Sickness, only Williams being bred a Roman Catholick , had a Person of that Persuasion to attend him.

On Wednesday the 31st of July, Mr. Recorder made the Report of eleven Malefactors to His Majesty in Council, at Kensington, when he was pleased to order the seven following; viz. William Corbee , Thomas Cullingham , John Ayliff , Simon Smith , Thomas Buckmore , James Williams , and Thomas Twinbrow , for Execution on Monday the 6th Instant.

Anne Ellis , Peter Tickner , Millicent Clisby , and Anne Robinson , were respited till His Majesty's Pleasure be further keown .

John Fish having been formerly respited upon Application of the Jury, an Order was sent, directing him to be executed according to his former Sentence.

1. John Fish , was indicted, for that he, on the King's Highway, on Thomas Lomley did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, and Danger of his Life, one Clasp Knife, Value 6 d. one Thirty-six Shilling Peace, and 5 s. and 9 d. in Money numbered, from his Person did steal, April 3d .

2. Simon Smith , was indicted,

for that he, on the King's Highway, on John Mibous did make an Assault, one Hat, Value 1 s. from his Person did steal, take and carry away .

3. William Corbee , was indicted, for that he, in a certain Field, or open Place, near the King's Highway, on John Stubbs did make an Assault, and him, the said John, did put in bodily Fear, 2 Gold Rings, Value 5 s. one Thread Purse, Value 1 d. one Spanish Dollar, Value 4 s. one Queen Elizabeth's Shilling, Value 6 d. from his Person did steal, take, &c. March the 4th .

4. John Ayliff , was indicted, for that he, on the King's Highway, on William Clifton , Esq ; did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, and Danger of his Life, one Hat, Value 1 s. one Linen Handkerchief, Value 1 s. one Paper Snuff-Box, 2 Silk Handkerchiefs, Value 2 s. one Linen Stock, one Silver Stock-Buckle, and 3 s. in Money, from his Person did steal, take and carry away, March 4th .

5. Thomas Cullingham the younger , of Houlton , near Holdsworth , Suffolk , was indicted for not surrendering himself according to the King's Order in Council .

6. Thomas Buckmore , was indicted, for that he, in a certain Field, or open Place, near the King's Highway, on one Albert Binmer did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, and Danger of his Life, 1 s. and 2 d. in Money numbered, from the said Binmer, and against the Will of the said Binmer, did steal, take, and carry away, June 30 .

7. James Williams , was indicted for stealing one Gold Watch, Value 10 l. 1 Steel Watch-Chain, one Seal set in Gold, one Cloth Coat, one Pair of Shag Breeches, the Goods of James Cope , in the Dwelling House of the said James, June 13 .

8. Thomas Twinbrow , was indicted, for that he, on the King's Highway, on John Bowden did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, and Danger of his Life, and taking from his Person, against his Will, one Canvas Bag, Value 1 d. 56 Guineas, 20 s. in Silver, 14 Sixpences, and Portugal Gold in divers Pieces, in the Whole, to the Amount of 75 l. 9 s. his Property, July 16 .

Robert Davis died of the Smallpox .

Saturday Morning came down by the Hands of a Messenger, a Respite from the Duke of Newcastle's Office, for four Weeks , for Simon Smith .

1. John Fish , was 18 Years of Age, and says, he was born at Horsleydown , in the Parish of St. Olave , Southwark . His Parents were not able to give him Education at their own Expence, but

he learnt to read and write at a Charity-School in the Borough, and was a Youth of no bad Disposition, but seemed rather to incline to be soft and tender, tho' unhappily catched in the Trap that seems to have been laid for him. His Father died while he was very young, and his Mother lived long enough to put him Apprentice to a Cabinet-Maker in the Minories . His Master he served, as far as I can find, for two or three Years, without any great Complaints against him, and his Mistress's Account of him was not at all to his Disreputation.

It happened, however, on this unfortunate Night, in which the Robbery he suffered for, was committed, that he left his Master's House about eleven o'Clock, after all the Family were in Bed; and, as he says, he, by Accident, met the Evidence and Accomplice, George Cuttey , who contrived his Ruin. He pretends he went out to get a Waistcoat he had pawned to a Woman, and he went that Night, because he had been told she was to sell it the next Morning, and he had a Mind to have it again: But it proved the worst Night's Work he ever did. He owns that he was a little loose, was given to Drink, and frequented most of the Publick-Houses in the Neighbourhood; but says, he never was guilty of any Sort of Robbery before in his Life: And he always did represent this for which he was convicted, in the following Light; positively, to the last, denying his knocking the Prosecutor down, and putting him in Fear, as sworn against him. He says, on that unfortunate Night, he, and the Evidence and Accomplice, went from one Publick-House to another, and drank together, not one Word being mentioned of Intention to rob any Body. He had been but once before in his Company, which was about three Weeks before. The last House they were at that Night, he says, was in Dark-House-Lane , and that there the Accomplice left him in a Box by himself, and went and sat with the Prosecutor about an Hour, drinking. At last, he says, the Prosecutor was going away, about nine o'clock in the Morning, somewhat in Liquor, and refused to pay his Reckoning before he went: Upon which, some were for husselling him, and setting his Heels where his Head stood, that so, his Money falling out of his Pocket, the Landlord might pay himself; but the Evidence Cutty said, we have another Way for that; and so laying down before the Prosecutor, in the House where they were, with others then present, they pushed him over Cutty's Back, and the money did fall out of his Pocket. Fish says he never thought any Thing of the Matter, 'till he saw the 36 Shilling Piece on the Ground, and the Temptation was then so strong, that he took it up, and immediately went away; and adds, that he never saw the Prosecutor that Night, any where but in the House. The Evidence immediately followed after him, and overtook him, and they

went away together to a Place called Clay-Hall, near Old Ford , in the Parish of Bow , where they arrived early the same Morning, and spent the Day there, and in the Neighbourhood. They divided the Money, and spent some of it that Day, and at Night, he says, the Evidence and he walked towards Shoreditch , not thinking what was intended. When they came there, Cutly knocked at a House, where lived some People, commonly called Thief-Takers, who opening the Door, he took Fish by the Arm, and delivered him to them; saying,

" Here's 40 l. for you." Upon which, they took him into Custody, and carried him to New-Prison , from whence he was brought, of Course, to Newgate , to take his Trial at the Old Baily, in May Sessions last; which he did, and was found guilty, upon the Evidence of the Prosecutor and Cuttey the Accomplice, who has escaped a long while.

Fish behaved very well, and quietly, but was perswaded to saw off his Irons, as the rest had, that were convicted with him, on the Saturday Morning before they were executed; but the Whole was discovered, and they secured. this was Saturday the 26th of May. Sunday the 27th, late at Night, came down a Respite for Fish, and he escaped being executed with the Rest, for that Time. But soon after, the Order for Respite was reversed, and an Order sent to the Under-Sheriff for his Execution. But as there was no Day fix'd, he was reserved 'till this Time. He positively denied either striking the Prosecutor, or taking the Money out of his Pocket, and declared, to the last, that the Truth of the Fact was as represented above.

2. William Corbee , was about 33 Years of Age, was born in the Bishopprick of Durham , and bred to hard Labour in the Coal-pits , being a stout, robust Man, the Son of a Family that lived in good Credit and Repute, and were Owners of Shares in Coal-pits. He never had any Education to read, or write, tho' he was a Fellow of good natural Parts. And, he lived thus by the Sweat of his Brow for several Years after he left his Parents, 'till a wandering Inclination tempted, by a red Coat and Cockcade, induced him to list for a Soldier .

He says he has been in the Army for 11 Years past, and had always a good Name as a Soldier. He was abroad in Germany and Flanders , at the several Engagements that then happened, and escaped all that Danger; and says also, that he was in the North, when the late Commotions were there, where he had like to have lost his Life, and wishes God had pleased that then he should have died. About 2 Years ago, he and Ayliff became acquainted, and their Acquaintance has continued to the End of their Days in a wicked Way, which brought them both to a fatal End. They were both of the third Regiment of Guards, and were both sent to the Drill, near the Vine-yard, in St. James's Park , to be kept more strictly upon Duty and Exercise, by Way of Punishment, as is theCustom for smaller Offences; and there they became very intimate, and resolved to go upon the High-way. Corbee says, Ayliff first persuaded him to it, and had talked to him a long Time about it before he could bring him to consent. But one Day they had got out, and drank plentifully, and began with the first Robbery in Hyde-Park . He, and Ayliff, and Eyres, the Evidence against them, committed several Robberies in Hyde-Park , and thereabout. But, being afraid of being taken, he left off for some Time, and he kept close to his Quarters, and Duty. And as yet, he says, he had never made any great Booty of it.

He confessed himself to have been a vile, profligate Fellow, and said he had been guilty of every Offence, except Murder, and seemed to be very penitent, and to grieve that he had been so vile a Man.

Various were the Robberies he had committed, he said, with Ayliff and Eyres, at different Times, so many, that he could not remember them particularly. He owned, that indeed in one he had like to have done Murder upon a Blacksmith in Aldersgate-street . He was met by Corbee and Ayliff, and they thought to rob him. The Person standing upon his Defence, and having a Stick in his Hand, brandished it at him, and set him at Defiance; upon which he fired a Pistol at him, and the Ball went through the Man's Hat, and the Powder reached his Face, doing him some Damage, and they made off as fast as they could. Many other Attempts they made to rob about Islington , and upon the Highgate Road , and in Chelsea Fields . Sometimes they succeeded, and at other Times met with Repulses, being over-power'd with Numbers; and he said, he was surprised how they went on so long without being taken before, for that they had run great Risques. In December last Corbee and Eyres were out robbing together in Hyde-Park , and met with John Wynn , Servant to Serjeant Draper, as he was coming to Town. They robbed him of Seven-pence, and his great Coat, made him get down from his Horse, and searched him, but finding no more upon him, they went away. For this Robbery they were both tried at the Old Bailey , but the Prosecutor was not able to swear to the Persons, it being between 6 and 7 when he was robbed, and a dark Night. The great Coat was sold by Eyres in Chick-lane, but when he and Corbee came to receive the Money, the Person, who received the Coat had them taken up by a Constable, and they were committed to Newgate . Upon their Trial Eyres pretended in his Defence, that he bought it for 10 s. and Corbee said, he only went with him, not knowing what he was going to do, and that he was innocent of what he was taken up for. Besides, Eyres calling People to prove him to be at another Place at this Time, two Women swore he was with them in Whitecross-street, at the Time the Robbery was sworn to be done, and they were both acquitted. But Corbee confesses, they did commit this Robbery, and several

others, that Night, in Hyde-Park , and for many Nights after were upon the same Lay. Thus Corbee went on 'till Fear gave him Wings, and away he sled for a while. By this Time he was become so notorious, that the Thieftakers had got Scent of him, and they came upon the Parade, where he was upon Duty, to take him. However, he had the Luck to escape their Hands for the present, and he deserted, and went down into his native Country.

When he came there, he says, he was forced to invent a Lie to his Brother, who asked him upon what Account he was come down? He told him, that he had behaved faucily to, and had abused an Officer, for which he was forced to fly, and if he was taken, he should be tried by a Court-Martial, and ten to one but he should be shot. His Brother believed the Story, and, in order to skreen him, took him with him into the Coal-pits to work.

The People in the Country, before he had been long there, knowing him to be in the Army, suspected him of Desertion; but he found Means, for some Time, to prevent their molesting him, and continued to work in the Coal-pits with his Brother. And, he says, he had continual Fears upon him, lest the Truth should come out; so that he had no Satisfaction, or Pleasure, in any Thing he did, or where ever he went. His Conscience went along with him, and he wanted no other Plague or Tormentor.

But News, somehow, came to Town where he was; Enquiry had been made after him, and he was discovered to be gone to his native Country. I think he said Eyres, being taken up, gave the Intelligence; and, bye-and-bye, he was surprised by some People, who went down to Durham on Purpose to take him. He had behaved very roughly to some before, who had attempted to take him; but they came well armed, and he was forced to submit. Being well secured, he was brought up to London by Sea, and being carried before Justice Fielding, was committed.

The other Robbery, of William Clifton , Esq ; and his Brother, Corbee owns; soon after which he was obliged to fly, tho' Justice overtook him, and he was soon brought back. After Conviction he behaved very well, and, though quite ignorant of Letters, was not lost as to a Sense of his Duty, but improved his Mind very much by constant Attendance at Prayers. He confessed himself to have been a great Offender, and said, As Christ died to save Sinners, I hope I am one of those that, thro' his Merits, may be saved hereafter, tho' I've ruined myself in this World.

3. John Ayliff was about 30 Years of Age, and says, he was born at Sunning , about two Miles from Reading , in Berkshire . His Parents not being well able to give him Education, had Interest enough to get him into a School at Reading , the Parish where he was born having a Right to put in two Children once every seven Years, and he had the good Luck to be one; where he might have had the Benefit of Support in Learning and Cloaths for seven Years,

and, at the seven Years End, of Money to put him out Apprentice, if he had behaved as he ought to do. But he was of an untoward Disposition, and all this Advantage was thrown away upon him. He could not be persuaded to stay at School, and his Father was obliged to take him Home again. His Father was a Farmer, and his Son followed the Plow, and other Husbandry-Work , 'till he was about fifteen Years of Age.

Then he took it into his Head to come to London , and, at Kensington, one Day, being in Liquor, he listed for a Soldier , and has been in the Army ever since. He was Abroad during most Part of the late War, in the same Regiment with Corbee, and was also in the Expedition to Bretany , when the late Admiral Lestock was sent there. He is said to have behaved as a Soldier very well.

He says, the first Person that seduced him to go upon the Highway, was a Corporal in his Regiment, who is now an Officer Abroad in the East-Indies; and that he has done many Robberies with Corbee and Eyres. He was a strong hardy Fellow, and seemed capable of any Mischief. He owned he had been very wicked, and had committed divers Robberies, by himself, and with the others. One of which particularly was rivetted in his Mind, it being a very remarkable one, and a great Booty. His Conscience was troubled upon Account of it, more especially, because he heard the Man whom he, and the beforementioned Person gone Abroad, had robbed, was blamed for it, and lay under some Disgrace.

He says, he, in Company with the other, met a Servant of his Grace the Duke of Beaufort's, in Hyde-Park , one Night, who had got a Pormanteau, behind him. They stopt him, and took it away, and went and opened it. They found it full of Linnen, of all Sorts, very fine; and having taken as much out as they thought they could well dispose of, they went back again into Hyde-Park. They were once thinking to throw the Portmanteau, and the Rest of the Linnen, into the Serpentine River; but afterwards they came to a Resolution to throw it over into Kensington Gardens , where, he says, it was afterwards found. He chose to mention this Robbery particularly, because, he said, he believed others might be under Suspicion, which they did not deserve, and that the Blame might be fixed where 'twas due.

For some Time after Conviction he behaved in a surly Manner, and seemed not to like his Situation; but when his Gall was once broke, and he found he was to suffer no more than he had a long Time deserved, I found by him, that this sullen Appearance, and downcast Eyes, proceeded from the Conviction he felt in his own Breast, of the Folly and Baseness of his past Life; having been, particularly for two Years past, a Scene of continued Injury and Wrong, whenever he had Opportunity to do it, not regarding how, where, or to whom he did it. Many are the Robberies he has been concerned in, with the Person gone Abroad, Corbee, and Eyres; and a dangerous Fellow he was, resolute, and ignorant, scarce susceptible of Fear. His Memory wasvery shallow, as to Particulars; but the Robbery, for which he died, he owned, and said his Suffering was richly deserved. After this Night's Work, he too thought proper to fly, and went down to his native Country. He says, he had no Peace of Mind, while absent, and he met with but little Encouragement to stay. Upon his Return to Town, he was not long before he was taken up. Eyres was admitted an Evidence, having been taken up for the Robbery of Mr. Clifton and his Brother, and he had impeached Ayliff, who being brought before a Justice, owned the Fact, and several others, and was committed.

He had deserved the severest Stroke of the Law a long Time, he said; and wished to die long before the Day. He was ignorant, but willing to receive Instruction, and having a deep Sense of his own Unworthiness, he hoped Forgiveness at the Hand of God, for the Sake of Christ alone.

4. Thomas Cullingham , aged 26, was born, he says, in the Parish of Huntingford , near Holsworth , in Suffolk . His Father was originally a Farmer, with whom the Son lived, and was brought up to Husbandry and Labour, after having a good School Education. He was of an ingenious and sprightly Temper, of Resolution to lead him into any Danger, and of Strength enough to carry him through great Difficulties. He afterwards lived at Holsworth , where he was at the Time that the Proclamation was issued out against him and others.

In Process of Time, Things not answering in the farming Business his Father removed to Holsworth, and there kept an Inn, or Publick-House. Being a Sportsman, he was employed by several Gentlemen in the Neighbourhood as a Huntsman, and was very well respected, as well as his Son, who lived with him: And the young Tom Cullingham being a sprightly, active Youth, was taken Notice of by the Smugglers. He was looked upon as a fit Person for their Purpose, and employed in their Service, and does not deny but that he has been a Smuggler himself, but he would by no Means be persuaded to acknowledge, that the Information which Leader had made against him was true, upon which the Indictment of Outlawry was founded, and upon which he was tried and convicted. Nor is this at all strange, for I do not remember that any one of them has owned the Fault for which he suffered.

But notwithstanding this, he seems to have shewn by his Method of living after he was proclaimed, that he thought himself concerned, and in some Danger. He was always shifting from Place to Place, and lived as privately as he could for some Time. Then he went over to Holland , and there staid a-while, and when tired of that Country, then he came again to England , and so continued ever since, sometimes in Holland , and sometimes in England .

He says, he cannot deny but that he was afraid he might one Day be taken, though he was not the Person, yet, as a Smuggler, it might fall upon himthrough Mistake; and at last his Fears proved to be not without Foundation. As he was sitting at Table in his House at Dinner, he found his Gate was beset; he says, his Mind suggested to him, that it was People come to take him, and so it proved. He escaped out of the Back door, but was closely pursu'd by two Soldiers, and two Officers, to a Brook near his House, which he attempted to leap over, thinking so to facilitate his Escape; but tho', he says, he had leaped it several Times before, his Feet now unluckily slipp'd, and he fell in. Upon which, one of the Soldiers fired a Pistol at him in the Water, which grazed upon the Top of his Head, and left its Mark for 6 or 8 Inches where it passed along. Notwithstanding this, he got out of the Water and ran, but was overtaken by one of the Soldiers again, with whom he had a Struggle. Cullingham says, he got him down, and beat the Pistol out of his Hand, tho' himself had not any Arms, not so much as a Stick. Then came up the other Soldier, and between them they beat him over the Head in a most violent Manner, which the Marks in his Head shewed when he was brought to Newgate. He struggled with them, and says, he had them both down, but being almost tired, and they continuing to lay on him severe Blows, at last, one of them took out another Pistol, and being close to him, shot him directly in the Thigh, left he might get the better of them, and escape, and then they took him. The Officers of the Customs, he says, stood at a Distance to see fair Play, but did not come near. They took him at a Disadvantage, but had he been prepared with any Sort of Weapon, it was Odds against his being taken. After his Wounds had been a little taken Care of, he was brought up to Newgate in a Cart, lying along upon a Bed, attended by a Party of Guards.

Cullingham was convicted upon the Outlawry, and has behaved since in a very serious and devout Manner. He has been greatly afflicted with Illness, in different Shapes and Degrees. His Wound in the Thigh was some Time before it was closed up, which occasioned a Lameness to his Death. Then an agueish Disorder frequently attacked him, attended sometimes with a Fever, which almost tore him to Pieces. After this he was seized with that loathsome Disease the Small-pox. All these he had Resolution and Strength to bear up under, and had well high got the better of it before he suffered. He appeared all along, and to the last, to be truly and sincerely sensible of having offended God, in that he suffered him to be so sorely afflicted in this World; and said, he hoped that he might receive the due Reward of his Deeds while in this Life, that so he might have the surer Hope and Assiance in God's Promises of Life eternal, thro' Christ Jesus; and he died thoroughly resigned to the Will of God.

5. Thomas Twinbrow , was scarce 21 Years of Age, was born in Whitecross-street , in the Parish of St. Giles's Cripplegate , of Parents who gave him a good Education, and kept him to School from 6 Years old, as he says,

'till he was about 14; where he learned to read, and write, and he had the Advantage also of the Rudiments of the Latin Tongue.

As soon as he left School he was bound Apprentice to his Father, who is a Tallow-Chandler , and bears a good Character in his Neighbourhood. The Son (unhappily for him) began to take the Man upon him too soon, and by his Folly and Wickedness, has cut himself off, and quitted Life, before he well knew what Life was. And he does own, that had he paid regard to his Father's Instructions, and good Advice, which he ought to have done, and not let loose the Reins to his own Will, and headstrong Passions, the Case must have been quite otherwise, than what it was, he could never have been so unhappy. He says he first rejected his Father's Councils, and then forsook his God; and Destruction hung over his Head from that very Time.

Within these two Years past, he has been a most wretched Prodigal, and undutiful Son. He would leave his Father's House sometimes for a Fortnight, or three Weeks, and sometimes longer, and wander up and down the Country. Sometimes he would consent to work with one Tallow-Chandler, and sometimes with another; all this while doing Wrong to his Father, and neglecting his Duty to him, both as a Son, and as a Servant: And, instead of assisting to get Money, as he was doubly engaged to do, he has found means to squander away for his Father, a large Sum of Money, in riotous Living, and what may be called by some Gaiety and Pleasure. He says, 'twas the Number of Places of Entertainment that led him to his Ruin; all which he attended as oft as they were open, one at one Time, and another at another. But they were all frequented by him at Times, and when once he had had a Taste of them, his Mind was never easy, nor could be pleased any other way. His Fortune could not support it, because he had none; but his Father's Substance suffered for it, and was scattered every Day, like Dust in the Wind.

Some Time ago his Father sent him to Sea , thinking that might tame him, and by going thro' some Hardship, that he might come to himself. But this would not do; he returned about Christmas last, and soon gave Earnest, that the Change of Air had not changed his Mind. He was now grown too headstrong for his Father, and would go his own Way in Spite of his Persuasion or Authority.

Bad Company, you'll imagine, he was got into. Too true it was; and they of both Sexes. His Father found what vast Inconveniency it must be to him, if the Youth went on as he had done, the rest of his Family must be ruined. So he began now to think it necessary to take Care to prevent his squandering away any more.

The unhappy Youth finding himself thus curbed, what does he do? Why, in a Rage, and mad at his disappointed Hopes, that his Father would not let him still go on, he goes to his Companions, and tells them his Case. They werenot long considering the Matter, before they persuaded him to the forlorn Hope, to go upon the High-way; one was to go with him, the other was to share in their Fortune, provided they succeeded.

When he left his Father, 'twas with Design to go to Sea again, and a Sea Chest, and all Things were provided for him, and sent, as his Father thought, on Board a Ship, and that his Son was gone to Sea. But, how sadly did he find himself mistaken, when the News came of the Son's being in Custody for the High-way.

'Twas on the 16th of July he hired a Horse in Whitechapel , and set forth about 12 o'Clock at Noon, and made his Way for Finchley Common . He rode about the Country, sometimes in the High Road, sometimes in the Cross Roads, without attempting to do any thing. At last he got upon the Edgeware Road , where, he says, he met two Persons, whom he resolved to rob. Accordingly he rode up to them, and they made a Push to get off. But he, overtaking them again, threatened, if they stirred again, 'till he had done with them, he'd shoot them dead. So he robbed the one of 75 l. 9 s. the other of 25 l. each Sum in a Bag, and rode away towards London . The two Men resolved, a little after, to pursue him, which they did, hearing of him all along the Road, and overtook him in Ponstreet , near Hampstead ; where they had Assistance, and took him; his Mare being near tired, and he so idle, as to stop to buy a Whip by the Way, gave them great Advantage. When taken, he was carried into the George Alehouse , and searched, and only a Bag with the 75 l. 9 s. was found upon him; the other he pretended he had dropt in the Lane which led to Hamstead-Heath . Then he was taken before a Justice of Peace, and committed to Newgate .

When he was brought to Newgate he lamented greatly, and said, that Necessity had drove him to it; that he had been ashamed to go Home to his Father, having spent so much Money for him, and used him very ill. What he called the Pleasures of the Town, and Places of Entertainment, had been his Bane. He wanted Money to support his Extravagance in frequenting these Places, and the Advice of bad Company had put him upon going on the High-way.

The Fact upon Trial was fully proved, and he had nothing to say in his Defence.

After his Conviction he had great Hopes of saving his Life, and great Interest there was made for him. But this Behaviour in the Robbery seem'd to shew he was no Novice to these Things, and left very little Room for Mercy.

He said indeed, that he had been upon the High-way 8 or 9 Days before this Robbery was done. Then he, and the Person in the Counter, went out together, and were several Hours in Kennington-lane , but that they return'd without doing any Thing. And they were to have met again the Saturday before, but he was deprived of his Company by his being arrested thatMorning for Debt. He went himself on Black-Heath , but did nothing.

When he found he was included in the Warrant, her began to think himself in great Danger, and to reflect somewhat more seriously upon his Folly, and past ill-spent Time. And tho' he could not help conceiving Hopes of Life being saved; yet he seemed to be upon the Stoole of Repentance, resign'd himself a Sacrifice of his Fate, and applied himself to Preparation for Eternity. One of the last Things I said to Twinbrow was to ask him, whether he knew of those two Men coming that Road with a Sum of Money about them? To which he replied, As he was a dying Man he did not know any thing of them till he met them, nor did he, when he stopped them, expect to find any such Sum as he did.

On Friday Evening last I received a Letter from Janeway's Coffee-house, Cornhill, in which was inclosed an exhortatory Epistle, which I was desired to let Twinbrow have a Sight of: On Saturday Morning I shewed it him, and read it with him, and it contained wholsome Advice sent him from one who subscribed himself

Your former Neighbour.

It desired an Answer directed to Janeway's Coffee-house, which was sent, and was as follows:

SIR,

July 4, 1753.

I Received your's, though you are unknown to me. I humbly thank you for your good Advice, and shall endeavour the few Moments I have left to make the best Use of it. The Crime I am to die for I was really guilty of, and deserve Death, which I hope will be a Warning to all young People. And I beg, as they tender the Salvation of their own Souls, to shun bad Company, and undutifulness to their Parents; for these Things are the first Steps to Ruin. I hope every one forgives me what I have done to injure them; as I forgive every one that injured me, as I expect Forgiveness from the Almighty.

From my Cell in Newgate.

P. S. I hope the World will never reflect on those I have left behind me, for had I taken the Advice of my Parents and Friends, I had not brought myself under these Misfortunes.

6. James Williams , whose right Name is Thomas Brown , told me he was born in the North of Ireland, in the County of Derry , or as others say, Mayo , of a good Family. His Education was pretty tolerable, and he says, he was bred a Limner and Painter ; but he not liking his Business, he did not follow it long, his Education being such, as enabled him to be Clerk to Merchants, or Masters of Ships , he got into Employ that Way, and his Inclination led him Abroad.

However his Temper was so given to change, that he would not stay any Time, in any Place, or Employ, and was continually changing his Situation, and he seldom came any-where, but some unlucky Affair or other happened,which put him upon finding out a new Residence.

When he came to England , he listed, and became a Soldier in the Footguards , in which Situation he remain'd some Time, and in that Character is said to have behaved very well. He was a likely personable Youth, and 'tis said, might have done very well before now, had he continued in the Army, but about six Years ago he was transported for Felony, and returned, and has since lived upon his Wits.

It was but a Sessions or two ago, that he had been committed to Newgate , upon Suspicion of returning from Transportation; but before he came to Trial for that Offence, the Person who was to have sworn against him, being a Bricklayer, fell from a Ladder, of which Fall he died, and so the main Evidence was lost, and he was acquitted.

He was suspected by the Court to be the Person, though no positive Proof appeared; upon which the Court thought proper, before they discharg'd him, to admonish him of the Danger he exposed himself to, by being at large, and advised him to suffer himself to be put on Board a Ship, which was then lying to take away the Transports, and voluntarily go Abroad again, to serve out the rest of his Time. This good Advice, he rejected, and denied himself to be the Person he really was, as he since owned to me, and was discharged for want of Prosecution.

So infatuated was he to his Ruin, that he had scarce been at Liberty a Week, before he committed the Robbery for which he suffered. He own'd the Fact, died a Roman Catholick , and behaved very well to the last.

7. Thomas Buckmore , was about 54 Years of Age, and was born in the Parish of St. Martin's in the Fields , served a regular Apprenticeship in that Neighbourhood to a Gun-smith . When he was out of his Time, he worked as a Journeyman for a few Years. He says, he has lived 30 Years in St. Catharine's, near the Tower , and has worked for the Office of Ordnance 26 Years, Journeyman and Master. Further, he says, he has had several Apprentices and Journeymen, and his Business has enabled him to keep six Hands to work at a Time.

His Neighbours, and those that have employed him, give him the Character of a sober, harmless Man, and he was in Business esteemed an honest Man; but he says, he has been not a little unhappy in the World, thro' Troubles and Losses.

He said, that there was an Account now standing open between him and a Gentleman who is in the West-Indies, the Balance of which was on his Side, but being in Debt, and seized for it, before he could get it to pay, made him almost mad, so that he did not care what he did. He and his Wife were very much reduced, he said; and he being obliged to keep out of Sight for fear of being arrested, could get no Business to support them; so at length he resolved to go upon the Highway, either to get Money, orloose his Life, not much concerned about which might be the Consequence of so rash a Resolution.

He says, he attempted to rob once before near the same Place, where this Robbery, for which he suffered, was done. He owns he did it, and says, that this Suffering puts an End to a tedious Life. He resigned himself heartily to the Will of God, said he was very sorry for what he had done, hoped the Loss of his Life might make Amends for what Injuries any one had met with from him, as it was all in his Power, but depended on Christ ultimately for Salvation.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Monday the 6th Instant, between the Hours of 8 and 9 o'Clock, Thomas Cullingham , and Thomas Twinbrow in one Cart; William Corbee , James Williams , and John Ayliff in another; John Fish , and Thomas Buckmore in a 3d, were conveyed thro' a vast Crowd of Spectators, to the Place of Execution. They prayed fervently to God to receive their Souls, while the Executioner was tying them up to the fatal Tree.

Then, having in the Name of Christ and his Church, offered up Prayers for them, and with them, and recommended their Souls to Almighty Protection, the the Cart drew away from under them, while they called on the Lord, and Christ to receive them. All was done with such Decency, as the Nature of the Thing admits. Their Bodies were taken Care of by their several Friends.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

