THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On FRIDAY the 24th of this Instant SEPTEMBER, 1731.

BEING THE SIXTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq ;

Number VI. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXI.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon. HUMPHREY PARSONS , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder; Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 8th, 9th, and 10th of September, 1731, in the Fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Three Men, viz. Robert Irwin , Richard Davis , and William Tracey , were by the Jury found Guilty of Capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly.

While under Sentence, two of them last mentioned having been grosly ignorant in religious Matters; I endeavour'd to instruct them in these first Principles, which must of necessity be known by all, as that the great God, who is infinite in all his perfections, created the Heavens and the Earth, and all Things that therein are by the word of his Power; and as he gave being and existence to the whole World, creating every thing out of nothing, so no less is the same omnipotent Power employ'd, in preserving this beautiful Fabrick of the Universe, and in directing every individual in it contain'd to those various wise Ends, for which

they were Created: And in view to this, the Apostle St. Paul saith, for in Him we live, move, and have our being. Acts. 17. 28. and elsewhere the royal Psalmist says, the Heavens declare the glory of God, and the Firmament sheweth his Handy-work. Day unto Day uttereth Speech, and Night unto Night sheweth Knowledge. Psal. 19. 1, 2. &c. And since all of us are thus Created and preserv'd by God, hence it follows by a necessary Consequence, that we must own and acknowledge this God, as the Author of our being, and the original Spring and Fountain whence all good proceeds, in whom all perfections are either virtually or eminently concenter'd; and the true way of acknowledging God, is, to worship and adore, to fear, love, respect and esteem him above all Things, as infinitely and supereminently lovely in Himself, and good and gracious unto us; but then the only true way we have to show our love to God, is to obey his Commandments; as Moses and the Prophets, Christ and his Apostles on all occasions declare. Now therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the Statutes, and unto the Judgments which I teach you for to do them, that ye may live, &c. ye shall not add unto the Word which I command you, neither shall you diminish ought from it, that ye may keep the Commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you. Keep therefore, and do them, for this is your Wisdom and understanding in the Sight of the Nations, which shall hear all these Statutes, and say, surely this great Nation is a Wise and understanding People. Deut. 4. 1, 2, 6. But let judgment run down as Waters, and righteousness as a mighty Stream. Am. 5. 24. Christ says, by this shall all Men know, that ye are my Disciples, if ye have love one to another. St. Jo. 13. 35. And again, if ye love me, keep my Commandments. St. Jo. 14. 15. And the Apostle enjoins us to follow Peace with all Men, and Holiness, without which no Man shall see the Lord. Heb. 12. 14. From all this, I took occasion to show them, how far short they had come in their Duty, in neglecting and forsaking God, and disobeying his Commands, in Sinning against the very light of Nature, and the light of their own Conscience, in despising the knowledge of God, and in choosing none of his ways; therefore it was, that God had given them up unto themselves, to reprobate and wicked Courses, which had brought upon them speedy Destruction, and expos'd them to much Shame and Sorrow. Having

stroy'd themselves by their Iniquity, I directed them to a proper Remedy: That they should apply themselves to Jesus Christ, that Rock of Ages, unto whom all the Ends of the Earth are commanded to look and be saved. Look unto me, and be ye saved all the Ends of the Earth: For I am God, and there is none else. Isaah, xlv. 22. I advis'd them to throw themselves over upon the Mercy of God in Christ, as having no Righteousness of their own, that they might be saved through the Righteousness of Jesus Christ, by the Merits of his Passion, Death, Resurrection, Ascension, Glorification and Intercession at the right Hand of God the Father; for, If any Man Sin, we have an Advocate with the Father, even Jesus Christ the Righteous: And he is the Propitiation for our Sins, and not for ours only, but also for the Sins of the whole World. 1 John ii. 1, 2. I told them that the Sincerity of their Faith in Christ and Love to God could only be prov'd genuine, by a real hearty Repentance for all their Sins, particularly those heinous Sins, for which they were now called to Answer by their Blood; for Faith without Works is Dead. James, ii. 26. And now God hath given an express Commandment for all Men without exception to repent, as a Condition of obtaining the Pardon of our Sins and eternal Life; And the Times of this Ignorance (i. e. of the Jewish Dispensation and the Gentile Word) God winked at, but now commandeth all Men every where to repent: Because he hath appointed a Day in the which he will Judge the World in Righteousness, Acts, xvii. 30, 31.

Robert Irwin , having been convicted of Murder, I expos'd the Unnaturalness, the Injustice, the Cruelty, the Barbarity, the Impiety of this heinous Sin. How that it is a Breach of the express Command of God, Thou shall not Kill; or as it is otherwise translated, Thou shalt do no Murder. That as all Animals have a natural Affection to those of their own Species, it is against the Law of Nature; the first Rule in Morality being to do others, as we would have them to do to us, consequently, it is against all Justice rashly and impiously to deprive another of his Life; it is cruel in the highest Degree to rob another, made after the Image of God, of the same Kind with ourselves, of his precious Life, yea this is at once devesting ourselves of all Principles of Humanity, and

cloathing us with the Nature fierce Animals, such as Lyons, Tygers, Wolves, &c. and Birds of Prey, which are made for the Destruction of others; the Barbarity of this Sin appears from the Opinion of all Nations, however Barbarous some of them may be in other Respects, entertain of it: Every Man shrinks at the mentioning of Murder, and a Terrour seizes him at the appearance of a Murderer; and what Nation is so void of Humanity, who does not punish Murder in the highest Degree, with the Punishment of Death, all Men having this Sin in the utmost Abhorrence? And as is said, this Sin, as it is directly in opposition to the Law of God, so it is a villainous Usurpation upon the peculiar Property and Prerogative of Almighty God, who is the Sovereign Lord of the Life and Death of his Creatures: I kill, and I make alive: Deut. xxxii. 39. And therefore it is, that the first Precept God gave to Noah after the Flood was, to discharge Manslaughter and Murder, and withal to enjoin the Punishment of Death to be inflicted upon the Murderer; Whoso sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed: For in the Image of God made he Man. 6. Where I desir'd him Notice of the particular Reason he assign'd, why we ought Kill or Murther our Neighbour. For in the Image of God ma he Man, dare any Person attempt to destroy the Image of God, and what in him lies, to destroy both the Soul and Body of his Neighbour at once; and yet can such a one expect to pass unpunished? I at some length represented to him the great Evil of this crying Guilt, in the Case of righteous Abel being cruelly Murther'd by his own wicked Brother Cain, from those Words, And the Lord said unto Cain, where is Abel thy Brother? and he said, I know not: am I my Brother's keeper? And he said, what hast thou done? The Voice of thy Brother's Blood crieth unto me from the Ground. Genesis, iv. 9, 10.

I exhorted them all, however many, however atrocious their Sins had been, not to despair of the Mercies of God, which are infinite, but to confide in the unbounded Mercy of God through Christ, who hath declared and proclamed himself, The Lord, the Lord God, Merciful and Gracious, long-Suffering, and abundant in Goodness and

Truth. Keeping Mercy for Thousands, forgiving Iniquity, Transgression, and Sin, and that will by no Means clear the Guilty, &c. Exodus, xxxiv. 6, 7.

They were also instructed in the Nature of the christian Sacraments, how that having been early dedicated to God in Baptism, it was requisite and expedient for them, in token that they were renewing themselves again by Repentance, solemnly to Consecrate themselves to God in the blessed Sacrament of the Lord's-Supper, when they were leaving this World, in order to fit and prepare them for entering upon a better State, even that eternal Glory, which is prepared for the Saints in light.

While these and many such Exhortations were given all of them attended in Chapel: Robert Irwin and Richard Davis made regular Responces, and William Tracy was grave and attentive, although he could not Read, as all of them were, to outward Appearance behaving well, as not breeding the least Disturbance, though Davis seem'd to be a little upon the Stupid and Insensible lay, and Tracy inclin'd somewhat to the same indifferent Carriage. Mr. Irwin was always much affected, very serious, and he groan'd and lamented bitterly, and had Signs of an hearty and deep Repentance. He turn'd very Sick and Weak upon the Monday before his Death, but always behav'd with a decent and christian Submission, both in Chapel, and when at other Times I visited him.

Upon Monday the 20th of this Instant September, the Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the three Malefactors under Sentence of Death in Newgate: When the said Robert Irwin , Richard Davis , and William Tracey , were ordered for Execution.

Robert Irwin , was Indicted for the Murther of Charles Piercy , by giving him one mortal Wound with a Bayonet, on the Left part of the Breast, near the left Pap, of the Breadth of one Inch, and the Depth of five Inches, the 9th of January in the Year 1726:

I. Robert Irwin , 57 Years of Age, of honest creditable Parents, in the County of Fermenagh , had good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, Cyphering, and Latin, which he understood pretty

well, while under his last Misfortunes, and could repeat a great many Verses out of Ovid, Virgil, and other Latin Authors. His Father (as he said) had a pretty little Estate of his own, and a good Farm; Robert being the Eldest Son, he did not put him to a Trade, but kept him easy, intending him for a Gentleman, or an Officer. About the Time of the happy Revolution, his Father rais'd a Troop of Horse, and join'd the brave Iniskilling Men, and was one of those Officers, who march'd to the Relief of LONDON-DERRY : At this Time Robert was about 17 Years of Age, and attended his Father in the Expedition, and was One of them, who, in Company with his Father, defended the City, till King WILLIAM sent them seasonable Relief, when they were reduc'd to the greatest Extremity; and at last, the Enemy fearing the King's Arrival in that Kingdom, were oblig'd to raise the Seige.

After this, Robert serv'd in the Wars of Ireland , while they lasted, and then he married a Gentlewoman, with whom he had a plentiful Fortune, to which his Children now have a Title.

After the Death of his Father, he being a little too Extravagant in his Way of Life, in a few Years he run out what small Estate was left him, and then he took to the Army again, and serv'd in the Wars of Flanders , having been present at most of the great Battles which were fought there.

He had been both a Corporal and Serjeant , but being of a disobliging, quarrelsome Temper, could get himself advanc'd no higher, although he seem'd to be a stout strong Man. When he was at Dunkirk belonging to Colonel Hill's Regiment, being like to die of Sickness, and not agreeing with the Air of the Country, he procur' a Discharge, and return'd to London , thinking to get himself enter'd upon Chelsea-Hospital ; but fully recovering his Health again he listed himself in the Honourable General Tatton's Company in the Second Regiment of Foot-Guards in which Station he serv'd, till he fell into his last fatal Misfortune He was also in the Army which made the last Decent upon Vigo in Spain ; and when reflecting upon the many Dangers he had been expos'd to in War, and how that sometimes he had made very nar

row Escapes, providence having favour'd him next to a Miracle, he lamented his very hard Fate, that he was spar'd to come to such a disgraceful Death. I told him that these were just Reflections, and that they ought to bring into his Remembrance, the many signal Mercies wherewith God had blest him, and his base Ingratitude, for which God had brought him into Judgment, leaving him to himself, and permitting him to commit that atrocious and heinous Crime, for which he deservedly suffer'd so much Shame, Contempt and Misery. He own'd that God was Just in all his Judgments, and Righteous in all his Ways, that the Punishment of his Iniquities was by far less than what he deserved, and that God in Justice had afflicted him, for the notorious Contempt of his Laws, and neglecting of his Ordinances, for his Sinning against so much Light and Knowledge, against so many Vows, Obligations and Resolutions to the Contrary. The Cause of his Ruin was his hasty, quarelsome Temper, and his giving Way to excessive Fits of Passion, to which he never gave any Check or Restraint. When in the Army, be bore Company to the Bullies, and being of a fiery, vindictive Disposition, he fought often but (as he said) never kill'd any though he wounded very many and sometimes dangerously. He was very much addicted to Gaming, Drinking, and Whoring, but did not swear much except when he was greatly provoked. He was always Honest in his Dealing, and abhor'd any Thing that was Dishonourable that Way.

As to the Murder of Charles Piercy of which he was Convicted, he own'd his committing the Fact, but said he had no intention of murthering him, but only design'd to give the Fellow a Prick, having had no good will to him for two or three Years before: For Irwin was Door-keeper of the Gaming-House in the Hay-Market , and Piercy the Deceas'd envy'd him for his Place, and never left the House till he got Irwin put from it, and himself settled in his Place: Mr. Irwin retain'd a Grudge at Piercy, though this was two Years before the Accident happen'd. The Account he gave of it was, that on the 9th of January, 1726, he being on Guard got leave of the Corporal to be Absent for some Hours, upon Pretence of having some Business to do: As he was Walking about the

Streets, having little to do, and meeting with one Acquaintance after another, he drunk a deal of Beer and Geneva in different Places, and at last being fudled, he propos'd to John Briggins who was in his Company to take a Step to the Gaming-House, where he was to meet a Man who ow'd him some small Matter. Accordingly they went from the Opera-House to the Gaming-House, and Irwin ringing the Bell, the Deceas'd came down to open the Door, and seeing Irwin, he told him he had Orders not to let him into the House, as being a turbulent, quarrelsome Fellow. Irwin endeavour'd to press in at the Door, and Piercy kept him out and hurt and bruised his Arm; then Irwin drew his Bayonet, and as Piercy was attempting to shut the Wicket, he stabb'd him in the Breast, and touching his Heart, the Wound prov'd mortal, so that he died in less than an Hour, before a Surgeon could be brought to him. His Officers had advis'd him not to go any more to Gaming-Houses, and he made a solemn Promise never to do so again, but he had contracted such a Habit of keeping that sort of idle Company, that he could not keep his Word, the Breaking of which ruin'd and brought him to an ignominious Death.

After the Murder, as he was going to dismount his Guard next Morning, some Body informing him that Charles Piercy was Dead of the Wound he gave him the Evening before, he fled to Ireland , where he had some Brothers, and a Son settled in pretty good Business, and a Number of other good Friends, who would have kept him, and let him want for Nothing. He staid with them a Year or two, but then being weary, because he had nothing of his own; he could by no Intreaties be diswaded from returning to London , to get himself entered into Chelsea-Hospital ; thinking then he might Return and Live and Die in his native Country. He thought also that Piercy having been but a poor Man, the Murder had been forgot, and no Body would give themselves the Trouble of inquiring about his Death. But in this he found himself greatly mistaken.

I told him, that it seem'd as if God had given him up to an Infatuation; and that his rejecting all good Advice, which might have secured his Life, and the violent Desire he had of returning to London , were the Cry of his Brother's Blood to Heaven for Vengeance upon the

Murtherer, and that he might be assured, this was the true Interpretation of such a strange Providence, as Abel's righteous Blood, cried from the Earth to God for Vengeance upon his wicked Brother Cain; so God in his Justice would not suffer him to pass unpunish'd; but Providence brought Matters about in such a wonderful Manner, that he had not Power to escape, but came willingly to the Place, where he was to surrender himself to those who (he knew) would cause Justice to be executed upon him.

He own'd the Truth of all this, and that the Punishment of his Iniquity was less than what he deserv'd.

He complain'd of his getting no rest in the Night-time, and that he was skar'd and terrified with frightful Thoughts and dreadful Apprehensions; and that the Devil put it into his Mind, to make away with himself, since he must die.

I advis'd him to fix his Thoughts upon God, and patiently to wait till God call'd him to Account, to pray earnestly, that God would expel such wicked and frightful Thoughts out of his Mind, and wholly settle his Affection on Things above, where Christ sits at the Right-hand of God. I expos'd to him the great Wickedness and extream Danger of that execrable Sin of Self-murder; that the Heathens, particularly that learned Orator Cicero, by the Light of Nature, had declared against it, and that upon no pretence of any Discontent whatsoever it was to be done, but that Men ought patiently to attend God's Time of calling them, to remove out of this earthly Tabernacle. I show'd him, that it was a Disgrace and a Shame, that such a Sin should be nam'd among Christians, whose admirable Religion furnishes them with so many Helps and Supports against all, even the most violent Temptations; and that by many it was reckon'd to be the damnable Sin against the Holy-Ghost, for the Pardon of which Sin, St. John forbids Christians to pray: And certain it is, that Self-murtherers deprive themselves of all Time and Means of Repentance, and therefore they are not allow'd the Privilege of christian Burial, but are thrown out into the open Fields or Highways like Dogs.

He had great convictions of Sin upon his Mind, and often fell upon

his Knees, and confess'd himself a vile Sinner with grievous Mournings and Lamentations; I exhorted him against Despair, and to trust in the Mercy of God which is Infinite. He was very Poor and had nothing to subsist with. He fasted much, and said he deserved not to eat.

Monday before he died, he fell very Sick and Weak, but when eas'd of his Irons on Tuesday Afternoon he came to Chapel again, where he always behav'd himself seriously and devoutly, as also when I visited him in the Cell. He appear'd truly Penitent, believ'd in Jesus Christ his only Saviour, through whose Merits only he hop'd for Salvation, and died in Peace with all the World, and in Communion with this Church.

Richard Davis and William Tracey , of St. Paul's Covent-Garden , were indicted for burglariously breaking the House of William Genew , Esq; between the Hours of 12 and 1, in the Night-Time, and feloniously Stealing 24 Pewter-Plates, a pair of Pistols, a Sword, 7 Silver Tea-Spoons, 2 Cups, a Goldheaded Cane, 2 Perriwigs, and divers other Things of Value, the 23d of July last. And also the latter for contriving, procuring and abetting the Felony; and also for receiving the said Goods, knowing them to have been stolen.

They were also indicted a second Time for breaking the House of the said William Genew , and feloniously stealing several other Goods of Value, the 25th of July last.

They were also indicted a third Time for burglariously breaking the House of Thomas Heath , and feloniously stealing three Feather-Beds, and other Furniture of Beds, the 13th of July last.

2. Richard Davis , Twenty-two Years of Age, of honest Parents in Chelsea , his Father was a Shoemaker and kept a Publick-House there, and gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writeing, and Accompts, to fit him for Business, and got him instructed in christian Principles, for the Good of his Soul, but those he very little minded, and set his Thoughts a quite contrary Way, following after a Gang of common Thieves and House-breakers, who advis'd him to follow those pernicious Courses, which in a short Time ended in his speedy Ruin and Destruction. When of Age his Pa

rents bound him Apprentice to a House-Carpenter , and he serv'd out his Time with Approbation, but when his Time was out, Work did not agree with him, he lov'd an idle Life best, and associated himself to such Company, as commonly bring all them who delight in their Counsel and Conversation to publick Infamy. He went sometimes to Church, but when once he fell into Acquaintance of his reprobate Companions, he renounc'd every Thing that's good and virtuous, and gave himself wholly up to idleness and loose, disorderly Company. His Friends, who were honest People and in a good Way of Business, he forsook, would take none of their Counsel, and shun'd seeing or meeting with them; so that had he not been taken in Time, and when he first undertook to lead such a wicked Life, in all propability he had made a considerable Progress in Wickedness. The Burglaries of which he was Convicted he own'd as they were sworn against him; that he robb'd Mr. Genew's House, when the Family was out of Town, of a great many Goods and valuable Things, on the 23d and 25th of July last; and also that he broke into the House of Thomas Heath , and carried thence Feather-Beds and other Goods, on the 13th of July last: Only he said, that the Witnesses fail'd, and did not represent him fairly in some Particulars; but that upon the Main all was true. He denied, that ever he was Guilty of Thieving, House-breaking or Robbing at any other Time, but confess'd, if he had not been taken up, that he did not intend to apply to any other Business; only in extenuation of his Guilt, he said, he had been of a long time Sick and had Infirmities about his Body, which put him out of Business and oblig'd him to sell his Tools; but withal he acknowledg'd, that he had good Relations, who were able and willing to keep him, and would not let him want every Thing needful, if he had been good for any Thing. He was a poor, simple, ignorant, idle, indolent young Fellow. He had been so disobliging and disobedient to his Friends, that none of them came near him. Although Tracey deny'd, yet all was true upon him, as Davis said. He constantly attended and behav'd well in Chapel, and made Responses as he could, though not very well having neglected to cultivate his Education which was good. He declar'd, that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, believ'd in Christ as the Son of God and his only Saviour, through whose Merits he hop'd

for Salvation, and that he freely forgave all Injuries, as he expected forgiveness from God.

3. William Tracey about 50 Years of Age, of honest Parents, but had no Education at School. When he was a Boy of seven or eight Years of Age, as he said, he was with his Father in the Seige of Londonderry , where he continu'd till the City was reliev'd. His Father was Poor and did not put him to any Trade; when of Age, he serv'd as a Soldier for several Years in Ireland , Flanders and Spain . Afterwards being weary of the Army, he came to London , married a Wife and kept House in and about Hedge-lane , for Twentyfive Years past, and said he serv'd sometimes as Watchman , and that he was well known in the Parish, and several People in the Neighbourhood could testify, that he carried himself well, kept a good House and was of a good Character.

He kept a Fruit-stand , and sometimes drove a Barrow about the Streets, and his Wife and he liv'd well and bred up a good Family of Children, by following that Business.

He let out his House to such Lodgers as he could get, and said, he never knew any of them Dishonest, but those who were taken up on this Occasion, in company of one of whom he died.

He reflected bitterly (and I believe unjustly) on a certain Gentleman.

He confess'd that he had been a great Swearer and Drinker, and very cruel and barbarous in abusing his Wife, whom he call'd his Poor Woman, in a loving Way.

He profess'd himself Penitent, but was grosly Ignorant in Religion. At First he gave out, that he was of our Communion; but the Day before he died, he own'd himself of another.

On Tuesday the 21st Instant, two or three Days before the Execution, before Prayers in Chappel, in the Afternoon, Tracey said, He had no Hand in the Burglaries, further than saying before a Justice of Peace, that a Bed was his, which had been Stolen, and allowing it to be brought to his House, and by

making that Lie, gave Occasion to Bagnal, one of their Associates to make his Escape; and to certify the Truth of this, he made solemn Asseverations and Vows.

Davis look'd on him and said, O Tracey! What a Lie do you speak?

Tracey at this was angry with Davis, and said, The Devil was in him.

Davis told him, He was the greatest Rogue of all, and that he advis'd them to what they did, and was present at some of the Burglaries, and receiv'd the Goods. They then begun to call each other Rogue and Villain, and such other ill-Names.

Davis being provok'd, said further, What have I to gain? I only desire to glorify God, by a voluntary Confession, and wish you would do the like, since you acted your Part in the Villany, and had a Share of the Booty.

He continued to urge so hard upon Tracey, that at last he own'd his Sufferings just, only he made some impertinent Reflections.

I exhorted them to consider, that they were both in the same Condemnation, and therefore to pass their few remaining Moments in Unity and brotherly Love, and to beware of Passion, which discomposes the Thoughts, which now they were only to settle on Things above, where Christ sits at the Right-hand of God.

After I had sharply reprov'd 'em, and exhorted them to Patience, Submission, and an ingenious Confession, they composed themselves for the Worship.

Tracey said, he believ'd in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

N. B. Thursday the 23d Inst. the Day before the Execution, Mr. Irwin came out of his Cell, intending to go to Chappel, but after he had spoke with some of his Relations and Friends, not being able to go up Stairs to Chappel, he was forc'd to return to his Cell.

Prayer being over, I waited on him in the Cell, in order to exhort him, and recommend him to God, before he died.

He told me, his Conscience chiefly troubled him, that he having got so good and genteel Education, yet had made very bad Use of his Time and sinn'd very much against Light and Knowledge; particularly in his marrying many Wives, contrary to the Word of God and the Christian Law.

After the Death of his first Wife, he dispos'd of his Children the best Way he could, amongst their Relations; than he ran away with a Gentleman's Daughter, who married him; her Father after a while being reconcil'd to him, offer'd to get him settled; yet he left her, after she had brought him two Children, one of which is still living, and went to Flanders , where he took on, and was a Serjeant to one of his own Relations, and there he married or lived with another Woman, whom he bid Adieu, after he left Dunkirk . After that he married a Quaker Woman, who (he said) was a good Body; her he left, when he long'd for a Change. Then he cohabited with another Woman, who was very dutiful to him, tho' never married; she died and left him a Child. And lastly, he married a Serjeant's Relict, whom he also deserted when he thought fit: Her he saw since he came last to Town, before he was taken up for the Murder, and she drank two Pots of Beer with him, and gave him two Shillings.

If he had got into Chelsea , he had some Thoughts to return to Ireland , and take up with his first Wife, though the Rest were still living, for ought he knew.

I desired him to repent of all these scandalous and abominable Sins in particular.

He said he heartily repented of Uncleanness, which was his chief Sin, and hop'd God would pardon all his Sins of Adultery, Drunkenness, and Swearing, for Christ's sake, in whom he truly believ'd.

He said also, that God's just Judgments had reach'd him, for the notorious Sins of his Life, although he had not committed Murder.

He appear'd to've been a Man of good Sense, but it was his lamentable Misfortune, that he was wholly addicted to Vice and Wickedness.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ROBERT IRWIN and Davis, before they went out, came to the Chappel, received the Sacrament devoutly, and heard Prayers attentively Irwin was verk Sick and Weak, and could scarce Speak, and was not able to hold up his Head. The Evening before he died, his Friends ask'd him, If he would be shav'd? He answer'd, No; I don't read any where, that my blessed Saviour was shav'd when he went to be crucifi'd. William Tracey did not come up to Chappel that Morning, but staid below speaking with some Body, having declared himself of a different Communion, though he pretended otherways, while he was under Sentence. At the Place of Execution, Mr. Irwin said he had Nothing to add to his former Confessions, only that he forgave all Mankind, and died in perfect Peace with all the World; and then he gave Eighteen-pence, which he ow'd to a very poor old Woman, near Mile-end , and desired me to order her the Payment thereof: This show'd his honest Inclinations. Davis said nothing, but that he forgave all the World, and hop'd to obtain the Pardon of his Sins for Christ's sake. Tracey added nothing to his former Confessions, but spoke out some bitter Reflections to the People, not fit to be mention'd. Mr. Irwin sate upon a Board 'till Prayers were ended, and after that, not being able to stand, he was strangled almost Dead, before the Cart went off. They were all serious in Prayer, and left the Stage praying to God, and crying out, Lord Jesus receive my Spirit, &c.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Newly published, The FIFTEENTH EDITION of

ONANIA, Or, The Heinous Sin of Self Pollution, and all its frightful Consequences (in both Sexes) considered, with Spiritual and Physical Advice to those who have already injured themselves by this abominable Practice.

As also the SIXTH EDITION of the SUPPLEMENT to it, both of them Revised, and Enlarged, and now Printed together in One Volume.

And as the several Passages in the former Impressions that have been charged with being obscure, and ambiguous are in these cleared up, and explained, there will be no more Alterations, or Additions made to them.

These Editions contain some further and surprizing Instances of the Mischiefs by that filthy, sinful Commerce with ones self, which is so notoriously practised, as well by the Adult as Youth, Women as Men, Married as Single, to the weakening their Generative Faculties, and hindering Procreation, as their Letters of Complaints to the Author, herein inserted, shew.

And, amongst others, a curious Letter from a Lady, with his Answer to it, concerning the Use, and Abuse of the Marriage-Bed; together with divers Casuistical and other Letters from both Sexes, of some secret unnatural Effeminancies, necessary to be known both by the married and single of each Sex.

To which is added,

A Curious PIECE, translated out of the Latin, from L. S. SCKMEIDER, as it is inserted in the Act Lipsiensia, concerning the Return of the Seed into the Mass of Blood; well worth the Perusal of Physicians. Surgeons, Anatomists, and all others of Art and Curiosity.

As also Dr. QUINCY's Translation of Dr. CARR's remarkable Answer to a Letter sent by a Divine, concerning two Nuns of Rome, reported to have changed their Sex.

Likewise Dr. DRAKE's and several other Physicians Opinions of Hermaphrodites, and Women brought to a Resemblance of them, by the Practice of Self Pollution, as was the Case of a young Lady of 18, whose wellwrote Letter to the Author, describing and lamenting her Condition, is (in order to deter others) inserted.

A very grave and learned Divine and Physician having perused this Discourse, before it went to Press, returned it with his Opinion of it in these Words.

'This little Book ought to be read by all Sorts of 'People, of both Sexes, of what Age, Degree, Profession; or Condition soever, guilty, or not guilty of the 'Sin declaimed against in it.

Is now Sold only by J. ISTED, Bookseller, (Mr. CROUCH, Bookseller in Pater noster-Row being dead) at the Golden Ball between St. Dunstan's Church, and Chancery Lane, in Fleet-street. Price Stitch'd Bound 3 s 6 d,

Where may be had,

The SUPPLEMENT, by itself, Price stitch'd, 1 s. 6 d.

Soap sold by Retale.

THE best Cuttings at Four-Pence Half Penny a Pound; and very good Green Soap, at Four Pence a Pound; which is very sweet, will wash as well, and go as far as the best Crown Soap, and is a Penny a Pound cheaper, by William Cowpland , Soap Maker at the 3 Pidgeons and Crown in the Old Bailey , near Ludgae Hill . He also Makes and Sells, fine hard Soap, white Barrel Soap, and all his other sorts of Soap Wholesale as well as Retale, for Ready Money, at the very lowest Prices, even tho' a Child be sent for them.

He likewise makes and sells, his admirable new invented Liquid Soap, at one shilling a Pint, which is as clear as Canary, and smells more pleasant than any Perfume, it being the only Soap yet known for washing the finest Laces, Muslins, Cambricks, Silks, Callicoes, &c. even in cold Water as well as hot, and is highly esteemed by most of the best Quality in England, for washing and beautifying the Hands and Face, as also by Gentlemen for Shaving. Only to be had as above directed of William Cowpland, who having petitioned his Majesty to grant him his Royal Letters Patents for the sole making thereof, hath obtained the Honourable Attorney General's Report in his Favour.

BOOKS Printed and Sold by John Applebee , i Bolt Court , near the Leg Tavern in Fleet-Street .

I. The Life of Catherine Hayes (who was Executed at Tyburn on the 9th of May, 1726, for the barbarous Murder of her Husband) giving a true and perfect Account of her Parentage, Birth, Education, &c. from the Time of her Birth, to the Hour of h Death: Together with every minute Circumstance relating to that Horrid Affair. To which is added, the Lives of Thomas Wood and Thomas Billings , the two Persons concern'd with her in committing the said Murder; the Whole taken from the Mouths of the several Criminals themselves, during their Confinement in Newgate. Price Six pence.

II. An Account of all the Robberies, Escapes, &c. of John Sheppard , giving an exact Description of the manner of his wonderful Escape from the Castle in Newgate , and of the Methods he took afterwards for his Security. Written by himself during his Confinement in the middle Stone-Room, after his being re-taken in Drury-Lane . To which is prefix'd, a true Representation of his Escape from the Condemn'd Hold, curiously engraven on a Copper Plate. Price Six-pence.

III. A true and exact Account of the Lives of Edward Burnworth, alias Frasier, William Blewis , Thomas Berry , and Emanuel Dickonson, who were Executed at Kingston on the 6th of April 1726, for the barbarous Murder of Thomas Ball in St. George's Fields . Price Six-pence.

IV. A genuine Narative of the memorable Life and Actions of John Dyer , a notorious Highwayman and House breaker, who was Executed at Tyburn on Fryday the 21st of November 1729, Price Six-pence.

Dr. R. NELSON'S most sure, and long Experienc'd Anti-Venereal COMPOUND, or Never-failing Electuary, the like of which is not to be met with,

For the true Cure of fresh CLAPS, (and all the lurking Relicks or Remains of old Ones) how virulent or obstinate soever they may be; for it immediately puts a stop to their Progress, and entirely and as it were, instantly ferrets out and carries off all the filthy poisonous Infection, wears away the various Symptoms, and by Degrees, cleanses off the Running, and heals and strengthens the Parts sensibly and firmly, without the too common Consequences of leaving either Foulness, Gleeting, or Weakness behind.

This it does in a way so regular and gentle, both by Stool and Urine, and with a Dose each Time, so small and pleasant, (the Quantity but of a Nutmeg) that the nicest Persons are as well surpriz'd as delighted with it, and the more, as it agrees with every ones Constitution, hinders no Business, nor gives the least Suspicion to the nearest Relation.

In a very small space of Time (living temperately it rids away a mild CLAP; and those more severe according to their several Degrees of Malignity.

There never was, or can be, in the whole Art of Physick contrived, any Medicine or Method, capable of performing the Cure more certainly, more safely, or more speedily, for it is so compleatly adapted to every Circumstance of the Infection, and so fully answers the several Intentions of Curing, that it is impossible it should once fail.

But no more need to be said of it, for it will recommend itself, insomuch that no Person will ever after seek for Cure himself, or advise his Friend to any other Remedy.

Price 5 s. the Tin Pot. Prepared only, by the Doctor as abovesaid, and left (sealed up with Directions) at Mr. Isted's, a Bookseller, at the Golden Ball, between St. Dunstan's Church and Chancery Lane End in Fleet-street; where it may be had by any Messenger, on asking only for a 5 s. Pot of The COMPOUND.

ELectuarium Mirable; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed, and Safety, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easie in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases. To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author, Dr. C A M, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden-Ball in Bow-Church-yard, Cheapside, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-sellers-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with, on any Occasion: And tho' (by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts. viz. I. On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaea, or Clap. III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout. Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Vindication of the Practice of Salivating. Price 1 s. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhil, E. Midwinter in St. Paul's Church-yard, and at the Author's House before-mentioned.

