THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Wednesday the 2d of February, 1714/1715.

AT the general Quarter Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-baily , on Friday the 14th, Saturday the 15th, and Monday the 17th of this last January, several Persons were Try'd for high Crimes; and of them, Six (viz. Five Men and One Woman) being found Guilty of Death, 4 were Repriev'd (which Mercy I wish they may rightly improve) and 2 only order'd for Execution.

While they all lay under this Condemnation, I constantly visited and instructed them, and to that purpose had them brought up (twice every day) to the Chapel of Newgate , where I read Prayer, and the Word of GOD, which I expounded to them; giving them such Admonitions and Exhortations from that Sacred Word, as I thought might be proper to awaken their stupify'd and sinful Souls, from their spiritual Lethargy, unto a Life of true Repentance and Righteousness.

On the Lord's Day, the 16th of this last January, I preach'd to them (both in the Morning and Afternoon) upon Rom. 12. the former part of the 10th Verse, taken out of the Epistle appointed for that Day, the Words being these, Be kindly affectioned one to another with Brotherly Love.

From which Words I shew'd, That Christian Love (which is so much recommended to us under the Gospel-Dispensation) does naturally put Men upon a ready and chearful Performance of all Acts of Mercy and Benevolence within their Power, and effectually restrains them from wronging any Person whatsoever: And as it thus disposes them, upon all occasions, to do good to others, as they might desire others should do good to them; so it makes them as careful to avoid the doing any Injury to, as themselves would be desirous not to receive the like from, other Men. Which is plainly the Meaning of the Apostle's Precept in the Text, of being kindly affectioned one to another with Brotherly Love.

To the constant Exercise and Practice of this great Duty, I exhorted my Auditory, chiefly the Condemned, from these Considerations, viz.

I. The Excellency and Reasonableness of it.

II. The Natural and Religious Obligations we lie under duly to perform it.

III. and lastly, The great Advantages (both Spiritual and Temporal) accruing to Mankind from it.

In order to which, I directed them,

1st, To compare their former Life with this Precept in the Text: And,

2ly, To rectify all past Miscarriages, and regulate their future Life, by it.

And on Thursday the 20th, being the Day of publick Thanksgiving for His Majesty, our most Gracious Sovereign Lord King GEORGE's peaceable and happy Accession to the Throne, I preach'd again in the Morning upon part of the Second Lesson appointed for that Service, viz 1 Pet. 2. 13, 14. Submit Yourselves to every Ordinance of Man for the Lord's sake: Whether it be to the King, as Supreme; or unto Governours, as unto them that are sent by him for the Punishment of Evil-doers, and for the Praise of them that do well.

And forasmuch as I had a great deal to say upon this Text, I prosecuted it, and further preach'd upon it in the Afternoon.

At first I paraphrastically explain'd the Words, and illustrated them by several other Scripture-Texts, expresly enjoyning the same Duty; and then I proceeded to shew from them;

I. In what Things we are to Submit to, and Obey, our Supream Governour, and all others in Authority under Him: And that is

1st, In All Things (whether relating to Church or State) which GOD has commanded.

2dly, In All Things that GOD has not evidently forbidden, and are of an indifferent Nature; i. e. Neither Good nor Bad in themselves; but cease to be so, when Commanded, or Forbidden; in which Case, our Obedience becomes necessary and indispensable, both with respect to Spiritual and Civil Matters.

II. Why we are thus oblig'd to Submit and to Obey: And that is for these Reasons principally, viz.

1st, Because GOD has commanded it, which (no doubt) were of it self a sufficient Obligation, tho' there were no other Reason for it. But,

2dly, We are oblig'd to submit and to obey, because GOD has not only enjoyn'd this in his written Word, but in those Precepts of Reason, which He has by Nature imprinted upon every Man's Heart.

3dly, Because as no Government can subsist without Obedience to it, so neither would Men (generally speaking) be Just, Honest, Quiet, and Happy, without it: And,

4thly, Because Men's Obedience, both to the Divine and Human Laws, greatly tends to the Honour of GOD, as well as the Good of Mankind; and on the contrary, their Disobedience thereto is absolutely destructive of both.

III. What is the End of Government: And that is Twofold, as our Apostle shews; viz.

1st, For the Correction and Restraint of Evil-doers; And,

2dly, For the Protection and Encouragement of Them that do well; i. e.

Such as are Obedient both to GOD, and to his Vicegerent.

From all which I further prov'd,

IV. and lastly, The absolute Necessity of Government; because without it there can be no Publick Service or Worship of GOD duly perform'd, nor any Moral or Civil Good done or promoted; nor indeed any Ill restrain'd, or prevented, in this World. For 'tis more than probable, that without a Lawful Government, and a Dutiful Obedience to Governours, there would be nothing but Anarchy, Confusion, Oppression, Rapine, Injustice, and the like, in the World; all good Order and Peace should then be banish'd from the face of the Earth, the Strong would oppress and invade the just Possessions of the Weak, and no man could enjoy any thing

quietly or safely, but must deliver it up to a Stronger than himself: So that he that could kill his Neighbour, or otherwise get the Power over him, might take his Goods also; and by such means, the World would soon become a Den of Thieves.

After I had fully discours'd upon these, and exhorted all in general to Submission and Obedience to Our Most Gracious King, that (under Him) we might lead a quiet and peaceable Life in all Godliness and Honesty, according to the Apostle's excellent Precept, 1 Tim. 2. 2; I then concluded with this particular Admonition to the Condemn'd Prisoners.

And You, who are (and that most deservedly) under these melancholy Circumstances: You, who have been so far from living such an honest and godly Life, as the Scripture commands, that on the contrary, You have abandon'd Your selves to the Commission of the heinous Crimes, which have brought You under this sad Condemnation, yea, within the dismal Prospect of an untimely and shameful Death: Consider how much those your Crimes have been offensive to the Majesty of Heaven, dishonourable to your Profession of Christianity, injurious to Your Neighbours, and hurtful to Your own Souls, which You have by them polluted and defil'd, and tainted with the most dangerous Poison: Consider well, That now the Time is coming (It is near at hand) when You must account for all your Faults; unless You do truly repent of them.

And now, as this Work of Repentance (wherein I have been daily instructing You) is great, and your Time to perform it in, short; so be Ye advis'd to use Your utmost Endeavours in a fervent and constant Application to GOD for his Mercy and Grace; that by the powerful Operation thereof, and the Merits and Mediation of Christ, being endu'd with a lively Faith, You may become New Creatures; and so be acceptable to GOD, (our Heavenly Father) and obtain the Pardon of your Sins, and the Eternal Salvation of your Souls.

On the Lord's Day, the 23d of January, I preach'd to them (both in the Forenoon and Afternoon) upon part of the Epistle appointed for that Morning-Service, viz. Rom. 12. 19. Dearly Beloved, Avenge not Your selves, but rather give place to Wrath: For it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay it, saith the Lord.

Which Words, with their Context, having first explain'd in general, I then apply'd my self in particular to examin and consider the Import or Meaning of this Phrase, Give place to Wrath; shewing, That it may be construed,

1st, Of our own 2dly, Of our Adversaries 3dly, and chiefly, of GOD'sWrath.

And that we may learn therefrom;

1st, To refrain from all angry Thoughts and Desires of Revenge, when provok'd, tho' it be never so much against Flesh and Blood, and the Bent of our corrupt Nature, to which Vengeance is sweet.

2dly, To bear patiently with Injuries, as it becomes Christians.

3dly, To commit our Cause to GOD, to Whom Vengeance does belong, as Himself asserts his Right herein, Deut. 32. 35.

Upon these I enlarg'd, and further shew'd,

1st, That by the Precept in the Text we are not debar'd from seeking Redress (for this we may lawfully do in Case of Injuries) at the Hand of those whom GOD has appointed to do Justice and decree Judgment; to whose impartial Determination we ought to refer our Matters, and (by no means) take it upon us to be our own Judges therein.

2dly, That as we are bound by the Law of GOD not to revenge Injuries our selves, but (as much as possible) bear with the Persons that offer them to us, and commit our Cause to GOD's Justice and his Ministers; so are we so much the more oblig'd to keep our selves from doing any Wrong to them that do us none.

Lastly, That this Doctrine being fully agreeable to Natural Reason, as well as Scripture, it must needs follow, that those who have offended in this Case, when they come to consider it impartially, cannot but be convinc'd of the Necessity of undoing (as far as they can) all the Evils they have done; that repenting of them in time, while in this World, they may have no Cause to repent of their Impenitence to all Eternity (and that to no purpose) in the next.

This I desir'd the Condemn'd, in an especial manner, to apply to themselves; that seriously looking upon the two vastly different future States, of which one must be their Portion in the other World, they might so prepare themselves to make an happy End here, as to avoid the unutterable and unconceivable Miseries of Hell, and obtain the unspeakable and incomprehensible Joys and Pleasures of Heaven, both which shall have no End.

Again, on the last Lord's Day, the 30th of January, I preach'd to them (both in the Morning and Afternoon) upon part of the Epistle appointed for that Day, viz. Rom. 13. 5. Wherefore Ye must needs be subject, not only for Wrath, but also for Conscience sake.

From which Words I shew'd (among other Things relating to the Doctrine they contain) That we ought to be subject, and constantly pay that Obedience which is due to Our Superiours: And this,

1st, Not only for the Fear of Punishment; But,

2dly, and chiefly, Out of a good Conscience, readily complying with this indispensable Duty, which Almighty God (in an especial manner) has laid and enforced upon us.

Lastly, on the very next Day after, being a Fast-day appointed for the Martyrdom of King Charles the first, I preach'd again (in the Morning, and likewise in the Afternoon) upon 1 Pet, the 2d Chapter, the latter part of the 17th Verse, taken out of the Epistle for that Day; Fear GOD. Honour the King.

In my Explanation of which Words, I shew'd;

I. That by this Command, Fear God, is imply'd the Whole of Religion; which comprehends all the Duties we owe, 1st, To GOD: 2dly, To Our Neighbour: 3dly, To Our selves.

II. That the other Command added to it, is given us in a particular manner, to make us sensible of this important Truth, That Our Duty of Honouring, Obeying, and Submitting to the King, and all Others in Authority over us, is of such high Consequence, that we ought to have a special Regard thereto; considering, That he who does not Honour the King, cannot be suppos'd to Fear GOD; for these two Precepts in the Text go Hand in Hand; and the Duties they injoin are inseparable.

On all these Heads and Particulars having sufficiently enlarged, and both in my publick and private Instructions and Admonitions to the Condemned Persons, endeavour'd their true Conversion, I receiv'd from such of them, as are now order'd for Execution, the following Accounts.

1. George Hynes alias Hayles , condemn'd for Breaking open the House of Mrs. Eleanor Brown , and stealing thence a Copper and two Pewter-Spoons, on the 13th of December last. He said, he was but 22 Years old, born at Newcastle upon Tyne ; That he had from the age of 9 Years serv'd at Sea , on board the Margaret, the August, the Norfolk, and other Men of War, and had also been for some time (viz. about 2 Years) in the Land-Service in Spain and in Portsmouth Garrison ; and, That he never committed any Crime before this he is condemn'd for. This is what he said at first: But upon my pressing him to speak nothing but Truth, he confess'd, That he was Burnt in the Hand at the Old-Baily in October last, (under the Name of George Hodgpath , or Hutsputsh ) for a Felony, viz. for stealing a Bed and Bedding, with other Goods, out of a Cabin in Mr. Dan. Smith 's Ship, lying in the River of Thames , on the 22d of September last; and, That he had been a very loose Liver, and done too much Evil in the World, which (to his great grief) he could not now repair. He begg'd Pardon of GOD, and of all Persons he had offended, but did not seem to be so sensible (as might have been wish'd) of his approaching Death; which (I perceiv'd) was occasion'd by his long Expectation before of a Reprieve; as it generally proves in such Cases.

2. Ann Wright , condemn'd for breaking the Lock of Eliz. Barrot 's Chamber-Door, with an intent to rob her, on the 30th of October last. She was about 38 Years of age, and liv'd in the Parish of St. Dunstan, Stepney . She would hardly confess her self guilty of the Crime for which she was justly Condemn'd; neither did she readily acknowledge, that she had done several other Facts of the like heinous nature, and was an old Offender: But when I laid before her, and charg'd her with diverse Burglaries and Robberies, which I knew she had committed, then she could not deny her being Guilty of them.

Here I shall give the Reader a Particular of some of those wicked Facts of hers, and the several Punishments she receiv'd for them, the Time when, and the various Names she went by.

1st, She was (under the Name of Martha Wright ) Burnt in the Cheek at the Old-Baily , on the 10th of July, 1702, for entring the House of Mr. James Gee , and taking thence 4 Muslin-Neckcloths, 2 Holland-Aprons, a Hol-Smock, a Cloth-coat, Wastcoat and Breeches, with diverse other Goods, on the 2d of the said Month of July.

2dly, She was (under the Name of Ann Rebel alias Ann Hutchins , which latter, as she said, was her Maiden-Name) also Burnt in the Chek at the

Old-Baily , on the 11th of September, 1702, for Robbing the House of Mr. Joseph Lineum , on the 7th of August before, and taking thence 6 Hempen-Aprons, 6 Dowlas-Shirts, 6 Smocks, &c.

3dly, She was again (under the same Name of Ann Hutchins ) Burnt in the Cheek, at the Old-Baily , on the 9th of July, 1703, for stealing 5 ounces of China-Silk from Mr. John Sheppard , and other Silks from Mr. Nathanael Wichel , on the 19th of May before.

4thly, She was in like manner (under the Name of Ann Hutchins ) Burnt in the Cheek, at the Old-Baily , on the 2d of June, 1704, for stealing 4 Buck-Skins from Mr. Tho. Boddington , on the 4th of May preceding.

5thly, She was (under the Name of Elizabeth Jolly alias Hodges , which latter she said was her Husband's Name) again Burnt in the Cheek, at the Old-Baily , on the 17th of January, 1704/1705, for stealing 16 yards of Silk, a Stuff-Gown and Petticoat, 12 ells of Holland, 26 yards of Lace, and diverse other Goods of Mr. Edward Kenworthy 's, on the 14th of June, 1704.

6thly, She was (under the Name of Eliza. Wright ) on the 6th of July, try'd at the Old-Baily , and order'd to be whipt, for stealing a Silver-Spoon and a Cambrick-Handkerchief, from Mr. Anthony Moreing , on the 17th of June before.

7thly, She was (under the Name of Ann Hicken ) Burnt in the Hand, at the Old-Baily , on the 26th of February, 1707/1708, for stealing 10 ounces of Silver Orrice-Lace, and 12 ounces of Gold-Lace, from Mrs. Margaret Tiplady , on the 3d Day of the same Month.

8thly, She was again (under the Name of Ann Hutchins ) Burnt in the Hand at the Old-Baily , on the 9th of July, 1708, for Robbing Mrs. Mary Collier 's House, and taking from thence 1 pound 15 ounces of Raw-Silk, on the 26th of the preceding June.

9thly, She did (under the Name of Ann Hodges alias Hodgkins ) receive Sentence of Death, at the Old-Baily , on the 6th of May, 1709, for Breaking the House of Mr. John Marsh , and taking from thence a Psalm-book, two Cloth-Coats, a Diaper Table-cloth, 10 Napkins, and several other things, on the 11th of April before; for which having obtain'd a Reprieve, and afterwards a Pardon, which she pleaded in Court at the Old-Baily , on the 8th of December, 1710, (at which time she was order'd to the Bridewell of Clerkenwell for 2 Years) she no sooner had her Liberty (which she got by breaking out of that House of Correction) but she return'd to her former wicked Way of Robbing. So that,

10thly, She was again (under the Name of Ann Hutchens ) Burnt in the Hand at the Old-Baily , on the 12th of April, 1711, for stealing 4 Holland-Smocks that hung up a drying in the Yard of Mr. William Baker , on the 28th of March preceding.

11thly, She was (under the Name of Ann Hodges ) Burnt in the Hand at the Old-Baily , on the 28th of February, 1711/1712, for Stealing a Coat, Wastcoat, and Breeches, Linnen, Gold-Rings, and other Goods, of Mrs. Susannah Butterwick , on the 12th of the same Month.

12thly, and Lastly, (to mention no more of these sad Particulars) She was again (under the Name of Ann Hodges , alias Jenkins , alias Jeatzin ) Burnt in the Hand, at the Old-Baily , on the 2d of May, 1712, for a Felony, in stealing Pewter and other Goods out of the House of Mr. John Simmonds , on the 5th of the 'foregoing March.

All these her notorious Facts, of which I had taken a particular Account, I laid before her, together with some others she had been try'd for, but acquitted of, for want of positive Evidence to convict her, tho' there was no great reason to doubt her being guilty of 'em: And moreover, I put her in mind of her having frequently broke out of the Workhouse, to which she had several times been sent, for her Correction and Amendment; the former whereof she would not receive, nor bring her self to the practice of the latter, but plainly shew'd her ill Disposition and wicked Desire of returning (as she did so fast as she could) to her sinful Course of Life; of which I exhorted and press'd her to make a free Confession, and repent. Whereupon she acknowledg'd her Guilt in these Matters, saying, (in general) That she had done many ill things, but her discovering them in particular (were she able fully to do that) would be now of no use

to the World. Having some just Suspicion that she had been concern'd in Facts committed in Surrey , and try'd for them in that County, I put the Question to her, which she answer'd in the Negative, thinking (I suppose) that those Facts could not so easily be known to me, being done not only at a distance, and in a County where I have nothing to do, but also under Names which she thought fit at times to take and shift, as suited best her Occasions of disguising her self, and concealing Who and What she was. I found her all along very stupid, and insensible both of her sad Condition, and the Cause of it. When I examin'd her in private, she was very sullen, spoke but few (and those angry) Words, and shed fewer Tears: What her inward Thoughts were, I can't tell; but she gave little sign of true Repentance. As I observ'd her in that harden'd Temper, so I told her, That she behav'd her self just as I had seen others do, who were guilty of Murder, whom (above all other Sinners) the Devil does what he can to hinder from repenting; and therefore I must needs plainly say this to her, That I was afraid she had been concern'd in some Bldy Fact or other; for she seem'd to me to be more than a common Sinner. To this she answer'd, That she never committed any Murder in her Life. Do? said I to her; Did you never kill a Bastard-Child, to hide your Shame when you were in Service? (for I knew she had been a Servant in some Families in and about London.) At this Question she startled, and after a Pause (not without some discomposure) said, She was very clear of that Crime. However I gave her to understand I greatly suspected she was not, for she had been a very wicked, lewd, and debauch'd Woman; and so I offer'd her some ghostly Advice herein. Then I further ask'd her, Whether she knew any thing of the Murder of Esq; Hanson and Mr. Carlton, who (some Years ago) were found murder'd, viz. the first near the Vinegar-house beyond Moorfields , and the other between Rosemary-branch and Cambray-house , in Islington Parish . To which she reply'd, That she had indeed heard of those Murders, but was not in the least concern'd in 'em, nor knew who had committed them. This is all I could get from her, who (as I observ'd with great Concern) instead of making a right use of the long Time and good Instruction she had under this Condemnation, seem'd (all the while) to have nothing so much at Heart as getting a Reprieve, and avoiding this Death; tho' I endeavour'd to make her sensible, there was no manner of ground for her Hope of Life in this World; and, that if she were wise she would (as 'twas infinitely better she should) seriously consider her sad and miserable Condition by reason of her Sins, and so by all the Acts of Repentance she was capable of exerting, prepare herself for her great Change that was approaching and inevitable. And this important Consideration I urg'd to her, to the very last.

At the Place of Execution (whither both she and George Hynes were this Day carried from Newgate in a Cart, and where I attended them for the last time) she seem'd to be much dejected and sorrowful; and no Wonder, for she had great Cause to be so. Hynes likewise cry'd bitterly, lamenting and bewailing his past sinful Life. Here I gave them proper Admonitions; and after I had pray'd, and sung some Penitential Psalms with them, and made 'em rehearse the Apostles Creed, I advis'd, that they would (and accordingly they did) desire the Spectators to pray for them, and take Warning by their Fall; To keep the Sabbath-day, serve God, and live honestly. Then I withdrew from them, recommending their Souls to God, and leaving them to their private Devotions, for which they had some Time allotted. After this the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, crying all the while to God for Mercy, Pardon, and Salvation.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Malefactors by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Wednesday, Febr. 2d, 1714-15.

B. LILBURN, that formerly lived on Ludgate-hill, lately at the Bakehouse in Great Old-Baily, is now remov'd over the way in the same Street, two Doors above the 3 Tun Tavern, up 2 pair of Stairs; who makes and sells (and has above 30 Years) the Water for taking away Freckles, Pimples, Worms, Morphew, and red Marks of the Small-Pox in the Face; at 4 s. the Half-pint. Note, She has taken the Sale of the Water from all in and about London some years; to be had new only of her self, who gives Advice (as well as Medicines) for asing and curing most Distempers incident to Human Bodies. Her Antiscorbutick, Hysterick, and Head-Pills, being good for Cancers, Kings-Evil, Gout, Rheumatism, and Dropsy, are 2 s. the Box. Her Elixir for Agues, Cholick, Gripes, Consumptions, Coughs, Cold, Stone, or Gravel, Vomiting and Looseness, is 1 s. the Vial, or 5 s. the Half-pint. The Girdles for curing the Itch, are 1 s. 6 d, each. Likewise Help for all inward Bruises, or Hurts on the Breast.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. Morphew, near Stationers-hall,

