THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 9th of this Instant OCTOBER, 1732.

BEING THE EIGHT EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir FRANCIS CHILD , Knt .

Number VIII. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXII.

[Price Six-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir Francis Child , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Baron Thomson, Recorder of the City of London; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London; and Justices of the Goal-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Monday, being the 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, and 11th, of September, 1732, in the VI. year of his Majesty's Reign. Eighteen Men, viz. James Borthwick , James Johnson , alias Drew , Joseph Powis , Lewis de Vic , Paul Cray , John Bumpus , Peter Bell , William Mead , Vyner White , Charles Patrick , John Vaughan , Edward Perkins , John Macgrady , Will. Shelton , William Fleming , Thomas Lowder , alias Loveden , Edward Dalton and Serjeant Griffiths ; and one Woman viz. Elizabeth Pardo , where by the Jury Convicted of capital Crimes and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, I instructed them from these Words, ' of the ' which I have told you before, as I ' have also told you in time past, that ' they which do such things, shall not ' inherit the kingdom of God, Gal. 5. 21. Here I expos'd to them the many vices, they had enslav'd themselves to Whoredom, Drunkeness, Idleness, Covetousness, and many other excesses and extravagancies; and how that by being addicted to all manner of Intemperance, as the Apostle expresseth it, ' who being past feeling, ' have given themselves over unto ' lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness, ' Eph. 4, 19. I show'd them, that because of their abominable, wicked and scandalous lives, now God's judgments had most Justly over taken them, and therefore they ought to 'bear the rod, and

'and him who hath appointed it. Mic. 6, 9. i. e. they ought to submit to the will of God, under every dispensation of providence, whether of prosperity or adversity, we ought to embrace and welcome the rod, as knowing and being persuaded, that all the divine appointments concerning us, are Friendly arrows of the Almighty, intended for the curing our Vices, and reforming our feeble Virtues, like unto a bitter physical potion, unpleasant and nauseous in the reception, yet contributing to the health and preservation of the Body, particularly, I desir'd them, who (although young in years, yet old, obdurate Sinners) had employ'd all their time in dishonouring God, and doing mischief to their fellow Creatures, seriously to reflect upon the evil of their ways and doings, and to turn their feet unto God's testimonies; to double their diligence, and to spend their few remaining moments to the best advantage, in exercising acts of Faith and dependence upon Christ, as a compleat Saviour, able and willing to save unto the uttermost, all who come unto God through him; in repenting for all their Sins, original and actual, especially those heinous, scandalous Sins, for which they suffer'd so much shame and contempt, and putting on firm resolutions of new obedience for the future, in adoring, admiring and loving God, with the whole Heart, Soul, Strength and Mind, as the fountain of all love and goodness, and as the Author of all our Mercies, in whom bowels of compassion do slow, having declar'd himself a God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering and patient, abundant in goodness and truth, &c. and in dedicating themselves wholly, without reserve, Souls and Bodies, to the service and worship of Almighty God.

Dalton and Griffiths convicted for Murder, I inform'd in those principles which instruct us, how great, how heinous, how detestable a Sin it is, as being contrary to the express law of God, Thou shalt not Kill, or as it is otherwise translated, Thou shalt do no Murder. Cain was the first Murtherer, and God inflicted a punishment upon him, greater than he was able to bear. King David, in other respects a good, religious Prince, and who for that Reason is call'd, the Man after God's own Heart, for the Murther of Uriah, was punish'd in his Person, by the many extraordinary afflictions he endur'd in his Kingdom, by the rebellion of his unnatural Son Absalom; and in his Posterity, by the dismembring of his Kingdom, in the days of his Grandson Rehoboam; and at last in the total overthrow and destruction of the Jewish Kingdom and Commonwealth, by Nebuchadnazer King of Babylon. The Jews long after they were restor'd to their native Land, for the Murther of the Lord of life and glory, (which by the surprizing and unsearchable providence of God, contributed to the greatest good, the eternal Salvation of Mankind) were exterminate from their Country, driven into most

miserable Servitude, after their temple and sanctuary, of which they boasted so much, were by Flames devoured and reduced to Ashes, and to this day they are Vagabonds over the whole face of the Earth, and living Monuments of God's Vengeance, against that horrid and execrable Sin of Murther. As to the objection which they might possibly make, in alleviation of their Crime, I told them that altho' Waller whom they kill'd, was undoubtedly a wicked Person, yet they were by no means to prosecute private revenge against him, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord, Rom. 12, 19. Deu. 32, 35. from this we see, that God takes to himself the power of punishing notorious Crimes, and that no Man in a private Capacity, is to arrogate this Power, and whatever is done this way, it ought to be by the command of the Supream Magistrate, who is God's Substitute, Deputy and Vice-gerent upon Earth: Whence it necessarily follows, that a private Man depriving another Person of his Life is guilty of Murther, and ought to be treated as a Murtherer. I represented to them likewise, that the violence committed by them, was in direct opposition to the standing Laws of the Kingdom, and that it was a degree of Rebellion against the King, in contemning his sacred Authority, and breaking his Majesty's Peace. Upon all which considerations, I exhorted them contentedly to submit to their Sentence, and to resign themselves to God, and to repent them sincerely for that grievous Sin of Murther.

As the time would allow, I endeavour'd to instruct them in the essential Articles of our holy christian Faith, particularly the two Sacraments of our Religion: How that in their Infancy they were engag'd in the Service of God, by Baptism, wherein they renounc'd the world, the flesh and the Devil, and dedicated themselves to the Service of God, and to obey the Laws of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ in every thing: I let them see, how far they had broken those sacred Vows and Obligations, in devoting themselves to the Service of Sin of Satan; and then I seriously exhorted them to a hearty Repentance, which was the only way to repair those grievous Wounds, they had sustained in their Souls, by their Apostacy from and their Rebellion against God: And to this end, I advis'd them to renew their Baptismal Vows and Engagements, by receiving the blessed Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, in which Christ, and all the benefits purchased to us, through the blood of the everlasting Covenant, are made over to us, in those external Elements of Bread and Wine, given and received according to Christ's appointment. I instructed them in the nature and design of this Sacrament from several Texts, particularly, 1 Cor. 10, 17, 17. ' The Cup of Blessing which ' we Bless, is it not the communion ' of the blood of Christ? The Bread ' which we break, is it not the com

' Communion of the Body of Christ? ' For we being many are one Bread ' and one Body: for we are all partakers of that one Bread.

When these and many other Instructions were given, they came to Chapel, and most of them, for some could not read, made regular Responces. Monsieur De Vic came once to Chapel, but he understood no English and came not again, and was very Sick; as did also Mr. Cray, who when he began to recover, was willing to come to Chapel, but by Reason of Weakness in his Legs, the Stress of the Disease having fallen down upon them, he could not walk. They were remov'd from the Cells, to a more lightsome Room, and De Vic was taken back to a Cell, because he was uneasy to Mr. Cray. When I visited them both in their Apartments, they declar'd themselves very Penitent; De Vic complained very much of Cold, and was not in his full Senses; I desir'd him to repent of his Sins, and put his trust in God's Mercy, but he understood nothing of English Prayers; Mr. Cray was very Penitent, and concur'd heartily with me, when I read the Prayers of the Church of England to him. Mr. Drew behav'd mighty well and christianly, while he had his Health, but he was very ill and light headed for some Days; when he recover'd any thing of his Senses, I visited him and he declar'd a great Penitence, and joyn'd seriously in Prayers, and was glad to hear any short Exhortations. John Bumpus who stay'd in the Cell with him, was also very much afflicted with Sickness, and behav'd well both in Publick and Private. In Chapel all of them behav'd decently and quietly, but not with that apparent Seriousness, becoming Persons in their miserable Circumstances. Some of them, particularly Dalton, Griffiths and Powis wept a little at first. I was told that in the Cells they took Pleasure, in the Dead Hours of the Night, when all was quiet, to speak of their Street Robberies, and their manner of attacking and abusing People, and other wicked and idle Stories. This was no good Sign of a due Sense of Sin or true Repentence.

Upon Thursday, the 5th of October, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the above 19 Malefactors, under Sentence of Death in Newgate; when James Borthwink , Lewis De Vic , Paul Cray , Peter Bell and Elizabeth Pardoe , receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining Fourteen, Joseph Powis , Edward Dalton , Richard Griffith , James Johnson , John Bumpus , Charles Patrick , William Mead , Viner White , John Vaughan , Edward Perkins , John Mackrady , Benjamin Loveday , William Shelton and William Fleming were order'd for Execution.

James Johnson , alias Drew , which last was his true Name, descended of honest Parents in the Country, not far from Town, who gave him a good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Arithmetick, to fit him for Business, and instructed him in reli

gious Principles. When of Age he was put to a Vintner , in the Strand , but being of an unsettled Temper, he did not serve him much above two Years, but parted with his Master and went into the Country, where not minding his Business, he idled away his Time, and was mostly taken up in Gaming, Company-keeping, Horsecoursing, Cock-fighting, and such other unprofitable Employments, as were altogether unbecoming him. He serv'd in one of the best Taverns in the Town of Cambridge for some considerable Time, and behav'd to the Satisfaction of those concern'd; but not loving Confinement he follow'd his old Trade of Idleness and publick Diversions At last he thought upon a settled State of Life and married, and took a House in the Town of Ely , where he kept one of the best publick Houses in the Place, and had very good Business, to the advancement of which his Wife, who was a discret, sober, virtuous Woman, contributed very much. Yet he soon weared of this settled State of Life, did not keep at Home, but always went Abroad, spent his Money prodigally, and run in Debt wherever he could get Credit. At last he came to London upon pretence of buying Wines, and there he liv'd in a very extravagant Manner, both as to spending and gaming, till his Money began to run short, about which time, metting with a Woman without Temple-bar , he took up with her, and quite deserted his indrustrious, careful Wife; and then his new Mistress pass'd for his Wife, to support whom he refus'd to stick at nothing. When his Money was quite exhausted being reduc'd to great Straits, he thought of taking himself to the Highway, which resolution he put in Practice, not having any other ways to supply his urgent Necessities, or to please his Mistress, with whom he liv'd, and whom he lov'd above all the World. One Day a Gentleman, who was his intimate Acquaintance, and as extravagant in his Way of Life as he, went with him to the Mint, on the other Side of the Water, where both of them gam'd away all their Money; then his Companion who had us'd the Highway before, advis'd Drew to go along with him, this Advice he readily comply'd with, for his Encouragement, having got a fine Mare from his Comrade; they kept together a good Time, and commonly Drew attack'd the Coaches or Travellers on the Road, while the other Man watch'd at a Distance, to give Notice to Johnson, if any Body was coming up to interrupt him, and that they might more easily make their Escape. He held on this Way of Life, till he came to be so well known in the Roads, that England became a Place too hot for his Residence; upon this he went for Ireland , and being at Dublin , he found Means, by recommendations or acquaintances whom he see there, to get himself made Door-keeper to the House of Lords , which Place he kept for one Year, and as he said, with Reputation, acting the Hypocrite, and his Cha

racter not being known there. He behav'd always both in publick and private, when confin'd to the Cell by reason of his Sickness, with apparent Penitence, submission and resignation to the Will of God. He declar'd his Faith in Christ; that he was a true Penitent, and that he died in Peace with all the World.

Charles Patrick , as he said, was not full sixteen Years of Age, of honest Parents, who educated him at School to fit him for Business, and when of Age, put him to a Shoe-maker ; he being a perverse wicked Boy, did not stay at his Business, but idled away his Time: And when his Father died, he left his Master, and took himself to a loose disorderly Way, and joined himself to the worst set of People about the Town, who taught him to pick Pockets, to steal privately whatever he could lay his Hands upon, to live in a most extravagant Way, and, at last, to commence Street-Robber, and to go upon the Highway. He confess'd that he was guilty of innumerable Streetrobberies, and nigh the Town, i. e. many more than what he could think upon or give Account of, and that he was one of the wickedest Boys that ever was born; having accustomed himself to Thieving, Pick-Pocketing, and stealing privately every Thing he could lay his Hands upon from his very Infancy. Among his other Vices he did not abstain from leud Women, but kept Company with one who he call'd his Wife. He was such an impudent young Rogue, and so dextrous in his wicked way, that some People call'd him Cartoush, after the famous Robber that was lately executed at France. He said that his Mother knew nothing of his Robberies and Villainies, and in Testimony thereof, he left the under-written two Letters, which he desir'd to be inserted in the Dying Speech.

LETTER I.

THIS is to certify all People, that my Father died whilst I lived with a ShoeMaker, and he dying, I thought that I could do what I pleased with my Mother; so I came away from the Shoe-Makers, and took to lying out of Nights, and got into bad Company, such as William Booth . At the first we went a picking of Pockets of Handkerchiefs, and we used to go and sell them to William Booth 's Father. I was continually pilfering about: And then I got acquainted with that vile Creature Ann Booth ; that's William Booth 's Sister, till at last I got acquainted with George Sutten , which was an Evidence along with that William Booth . As for Sutten, I never had much Acquaintaince till lately, as we have committed these Robberies which I dye for. And I humbly confess my Sins before the Face of Almighty God, and dye in Peace with all Men. And I hope that God will have Mercy upon my Soul.

LETTER II.

WHILST I lay under Sentence of Death, I heard that several Persons reflected upon my Mother, and said it was she that brought me to this untimely End; and such like Discourses went about: But there is a just God that knows all Hearts, and that for Peoples saying so it makes me very uneasy, for there is a just God that knows that she is reflected upon very falsely, for often Times she has said unto me, How do you live? I us'd to say sometimes one Thing, and sometimes another, and sometimes I us'd to Curse and Swear, and to ask her, What that was to her: And if I had taken her Council I had never come to this untimely End. So all People I desire that you would never reflect upon my dear Mother, nor any that belongs to me, for it was my

own Doings that brought me to this shameful End.

He declared his Faith in Christ his only Saviour, and that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died it Peace with all Mankind. These Declarations he deliver'd to me on Sunday the 8th Instant, after Sermon in the Afternoon, being the Day before they died.

William Mead , eighteen Years of Age, of honest Parents, who put him to School, and taught him to read and write, and to cast Accompts to fit him for Business, and when of Age bred him a Plaisterer ; the same Business his Father was of. This Trade he followed for some Time, but turn'd an obstinate disobedient Child to his Parents, and would not be ruled by them, but join'd himself to the basest of Company, Thieves, Pick-pockets, &c. who prov'd his Ruin. He said that he had not been guilty of robbing on the Highway but once or twice, and that he was very drunk when he did those Facts. His falling into such Crimes having only been the Effect of his drinking and Company-keeping, which carried him away to those Extravagancies, which otherwise had no ways enter'd into his Mind. He was not long wicked, and appear'd to have been naturally a well-dispos'd Youth. He behav'd always well in Publick, and made regular responses to Prayers, and was attentive to Exhortations, declaring himself a true Penitent for his manifold Sins; that he believed in Christ as the Son of God and only Saviour of Mankind, and that he was in Peace with all the World.

Viner White , was near twenty Years of Age, of honest Parents, who put him to School, and taught him to Read, Write, and cast Accompts for Business, and instructed him in the Christian Principles: When of Age he was bred to his Father's Business, an iron Stove-maker , which Business he followed with Diligence and Application, till of late he fell in with bad Company, who at once led him to Destruction. Several has gave him a good Character, and said that he was a hard working Lad, and had not been long in that Way. He himself said that he was not long wicked, but only falling in with bad Company, he turned a Drunkard, and they carried him out with them to Street-Robberies, when he knew not what he was doing, and that he had none of their Money. He behav'd always very well and christianly, and made regular Responses to Prayers, and was very attentive to Exhortations: And declared himself penitent for all the Sins of his Life, particularly those for which he died. That he hoped for Salvation through Christ, and was in Peace with all the World.

John Vaughan , twenty two Years of Age, descended of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School to fit him for Business, and instructed him in Christian Principles: When of Age he was put to a Plaisterer , which Business he only followed for two Years: Not liking that, he went to Sea, and serv'd a Captain for many Voyages, and was in his Majesty's Fleet at Carthagena and Portobello , some Years ago, under the Command of the late Admiral Hosier: He was likewise at Gibralter and up the Streights , and was not very wicked, having never committed a Robbery, as he said, but that one upon the Rev. Mr. Smith, and when he did that he was deadly drunk, and knew not what he was doing, having no Occasion to follow these unlawful Courses, for that he was lately come from Sea, and did not need to want Money, which he could always have when he pleas'd to work for it. He own'd that he was much inclin'd to lewdness with bad Women, and drinking to Excess: But that otherwise he was of an honest Disposition, and never us'd picking, thieving, or stealing. The Fact for which he died having been the only one of which he was guilty, as he said. He always behav'd very well, was penitent for his Sins, believ'd in Christ his only Saviour, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Benjamin Loveday , alias Lowder , 17 Years of Age, of mean Parents, who gave him no Education at School, so that he could neither read or write, and scarce knew any thing of Religion. When of Age, he was put to a Plaisterer , which Business he followed till of late; about Christmas last a Comrade of his playing with him, happen'd unluckily to thrust a rusty Nail through his Hand, which disabled him from Working, and then he was oblig'd to go on Errands, or any little Business as he could for his Bread; but his Chief Work was to do Mischief, having been one of the most mischievous, wicked, and profligate poor Black-guard Creature ever was born. For from his Childhood he was taken up in nothing but Thieving, Stealing, and picking of Pockets, &c. He was a constant Drinker of Geneva, and in little Shops he met with all the worst of Company, Whores, Thieves, &c. who never had a good Advice to give him, but still the Worst, which tended to his utter Ruin and Destruction. He own'd, that he was a most wicked, profligate, debauch'd Boy, and that he was very much taken up with Whores, Drinking, and all those different Vices, to which such Wicked dispos'd People are addicted. As for the Fact of which he was convicted, he utterly denied it, and said, that the Boy who swore so positively against him, and to his Face, was in a Mistake, and that he never knew any of those Persons who write such Threatening Letters, or any of them who practis'd that Way; and as for himself, he declared, he could neither read nor write, never having had the Grace to learn so much, although the Occasion had been offered him. I endeavour'd to inform him of his gross Ignorance, but he was dull of hearing; he own'd that he was one of the Wickedest young Fellows ever liv'd. He behaved gravely and decently in Chappel, profess'd his Faith in Christ, sincere Repentance for all his Sins, and that he died in Peace with all Men.

William Fleeming , 20 Years of Age, of honest respected Parents, as he said, in the City of Dublin , who gave him good Education at School, which he neglected, and never improved to any Advantage. When of Age, he was not willing to go Apprentice to a Trade, which would have settled him to some constant Business, so his Father thought it most advisable to put him to Sea , since there, as was probable, they would best keep him in Order. When at Home or Abroad, he always robbed, stole, and thiev'd, as Opportunity offer'd. He was in Company with Bluet and his Gang, who were executed at Kingston, and hung in Chains, for the Murther of Mr. Ball; When he was in Holland with them they committed innumerable Thefts or Robberies, by stealing Packs of rich Goods, and selling them to those who dealt that Way; here he got plenty of Money, but no sooner had they got it but they spent it, in a most prodigal and extravagant Way. When Bluet and his Companions were sent over to England, Fleeming took a

Voyage to Virginea , and there he behaved with no less honesty than he had formerly done at home and in Holland . After this returning to England , and being grown up nearer to Man's Estate, he got a Horse, and committed innumerable Robberies on the Highway, particularly in Kent . He and his Companion on a Day, meeting two Gentlemen and attack'd them, the Gentlemen made Opposition, and they shot Pistols at each other; one of the Gentlemen was dangerously Wounded, him they robbed of his Watch and a considerable Sum of Money, the other fled and made his escape, Fleeming's Companion was also Wounded, but the Gentleman and he recover'd: This is the only Robbery in which any Mischief happened of that kind, but in other Respects he committed innumerable Robberies on the Highway, the Streets of London , and near the Town. Upon his Evidence, Country Bob and some others were lately executed; he denied the Robbery for which he died, pretending that he only bilk'd the Coachman of his Hire, yet at last he own'd it, as the Fellow swore against him; he was an obdur'd, hard-hearted bold Sinner, but profess'd Penitence, and behav'd civily under his Misfortunes, both in Publick and Private; he declared his Faith in Christ, Repentance for all his Sins, and his Dying in Peace with all World.

William Shelton , 26 Years of Age, of honest and reputable Parents, not far from Town, who gave him very good Education at School, and had him well instructed in Christian Principles. His Father died when he was young, and his Mother when he was of Age, put him to an Apothecary , with whom he serv'd but two Years; at the End of which, he was turn'd over to another Gentleman, whom he design'd to rob in Company with John Bumpus , but instead of him, they only met with Dorrington his Servant, for the Robbing of whom Bumpus died: With this Gentleman Mr. Shelton stay'd out his Time, and afterwards set up for himself in the Country, and would have got very good Business, being expert at his Employment, but trifling away his Time, being careless and negligent he lost all. Upon this he went Abroad to one of the West-India Islands belonging to his Majesty, but there not having his Health he was oblig'd to return. Being put to his Shifts at Home, he own'd that he did many ill Things, for which he begged God and the World Pardon; he desired me to take Notice, that he was never transported, neither by the Government or by his own voluntary Deed, it was with the Advice of his Friends, but that he went Abroad in thoughts of succeeding another Apothecary or Surgeon in his Business. He lamented much the Injury he had done his Wife, in spending her Money and neglecting her. Under Sentence he behaved always like a Gentleman, with a deal of Courage and Resolution, and with apparent Christian Prudence. He declared himself sincerely Penitent for all the Sins of his Life, especially

an Infatuation he was possest of for Gaming, that he hop'd for Salvation through the Mercy of God in Christ, and that he forgave all Injuries, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

John Bumpus , 21 Years of Age, of honest respected Parents, who educated him at School, in Reading, Writing, and Arithmetick, to fit him for Business, and instructed him in Christian Principles. When of Age, he was put to a Barber and PerriwigMaker , with whom he serv'd only two Years; at the End of which Time, he being of an unsettled Temper, and too inclin'd to Idleness, left his Master, and his Parents being dead, did what he pleas'd; he serv'd for some time in a Tavern , and after that did several other little Things as Opportunity offer'd; and then falling in with bad Company of Wicked Men and Lewd Women, they ruin'd him at once: He said, that he was guilty of no Street or Highway Robberies, saving that of which he was convicted, but that he committed a great many other little Facts tho' not notorious Crimes. He blam'd the Evidence, Ward, as an Instrument in bringing him to Destruction; he had been a very ungovernable, foolish, silly young Man, and would by no means take Advice of his Friends, who always gave him the best of Counsel under his Misfortunes; he behaved modestly and christialy, and own'd that he suffer'd justly for the Sins of his Life; he declar'd his Faith in Christ, a sincere Repentance for all his Sins, and that he died in Peace with all Men.

Edward Perkins , 17 Years of Age, of mean Parents about the Town, who bred him at School to reading and writing for Business, and had him instructed in religious Principles, which he minded little when he came to understand any Thing. His Parents died and left him young, but some of his Friends or the Parish, bound him Apprentice to a Pin-maker , with whom he stay'd till he was thirteen Years of Age, and then wearying of being confin'd to Business, he left his Master and went out of Nights, and turn'd acquainted with the Black-guards in Geneva Shops, which prov'd his speedy Ruin. His Master frequently took him up and was content to have kept him, and once he beat him for his many Villanies, for he always ran away and was irreclaimable in wickedness, delighting in nothing but thieving, stealing, robbing and keeping Company with wicked Boys and disorderly Women. He was a Thief from his very Infancy, so that he could not remember the Time he began to Pick Pockets, and to take every Thing he could lay his Hands on. He was one of the most reprobate, wicked, unadviseable Boys that ever was Born, as he himself confessed. He was very hardhearted, and guilty of some little Miscarriages; but upon the Reproofs and Advices I gave him he turn'd better. He hoped for Salvation thro' Christ, declar'd himself Penitent, and

that he was in Peace with all Mankind.

John Mackgrady , 18 Years of Age, Born in the North of honest Parents, who gave him Education at School, and endeavour'd to instruct him in Religion, but those instructions he neglected and was unwilling to receive. His Father caus'd him to work at his own Business of a Fisher , and when he was but nine Years of Age, he by the Advice of a Butcher's Boy nam'd Hardy, robb'd his Father of Money to the Value of 9 l. and this the two Boys spent in eight Days time. After this he went no more home to his Father but came to London , having first robbed a Ship-master, with whom he went a Voyage of several Things of Value, and at London he liv'd by stealing from every Body. When he had stay'd abroad for some Time, he got a Ship to carry him down to his own Country, where an Uncle of his kept him a Year, this Uncle gave him dew Correction for a Fault, to be reveng'd upon him rob'd him of so much Money and ran away with a Horse of his, and this making five or six Guineas, with it he came to London , by the Way having robb'd several People about Newcastle , and having stole less or more from every Body he met with, and every Place he came to. At London he follow'd the same Trade, stealing and thieving every where. He agreed to serve two or three Fishermen , but stay'd no longer with them, than he found an opportunity to rob them: He went a Voyage to America , and stole from the Captain and every Body else as occasion offer'd. When he came home, he haunted in Drinking Shops with the wickedest Boys about the Town, and pick'd Pockets in Tottenham-Court-Fair , Bartholomew Fair , on the Streets at Night and every where. Once he stole 18 l. from a Countryman, and considerable Sums of Money from other Persons, all which he spent wickedly with Whores and Thieves. He committed some Street Robberies, and own'd the Fact for which he died.

He had not been long acquainted with Perkins, but during that short time they did a deal of Mischief, since they exactly agreed in Disposition having been two of the Wickedest young Men in the World; he acknowledged himself the most wicked, flagitious, disobedient, undutiful young Wretch upon Earth, and that he suffer'd most justly, for the innumerable Villainies of his Life; he hop'd for Salvation thro' the Mercy of God in Christ, declar'd himself Penitent for his many Sins, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

Edward Dalton , 26 Years of Age, Born in London , was Brother to James Dalton the famous Robber and Evidence, who was Executed last Year, as was thought upon the false Evidence of the infamous Waller, was Educated at School, but he neglected his Learning and forgot all, so that he could neither read nor write. He was a Butcher by Trade, but did not much that Way; he clean'd Shoes , and

did any little Thing about the Streets , and this was his Way of living for some Time past. He was once tried for his Life, as they say, upon Suspicion of a Felony and acquitted. He said that he never was a Thief or Robber, nor concern'd with his Brother in his Villanies. He had a Wife, but (as he said) she liv'd with another Man. He denied that he ever threaten'd to kill Waller, in revenge of his Brother's Death, as was constantly talk'd of him; or that he was near Waller that Day he was kill'd upon the Pillory. He own'd that he had been a great Swearer, Drinker, a Whoring Fellow and Sabbath-breaker, &c. He was an ignorant weak Man. Cried very much in Chappel, in Consideration of his Misfortunes. He behav'd alway decently, gravely and penitently. He at last own'd that he beat and dragg'd Waller unmercifully and barbarously at the Pillory, as was sworn against him. He died penitent, in Hopes of Salvation through Christ, and in Peace with all Men.

Serjeant Griffith , thirty nine Years of Age, descended of honest Parents in Town. He had very good Education at School in Christ's Hospital , and was carefully instructed in Christian Principles: When of Age he was put to a Trade, but could not keep it, taking chiefly Delight in doing Business for the Butchers , carrying Carcasses and such servile Offices. He was very honest in all his Dealings, and never wrong'd any Body, having been frequently trusted with considerable Sums of Money and valuable Parcels of Goods. He took particular Pleasure in mobbing and pelting Persons appointed to stand upon the Pillory; so that some Time ago he was so outragious upon one who stood at Hickes'sHall , and so obstinate, after they had often warned him to be quiet, that the Officers were forced to drag him away violently to Clerkenwell-Bridewell to receive the Correction of the House, for his officious and wicked Insolence. As he delighted in mobbing and following such irregular, head-strong, and foolish Proceedings, so at last, in the Justice of God, these unwarrantable and violent Courses brought him to a shameful and ignominious End. He went to Church sometimes, but otherwise he was a very profane Person, a great Drinker of Drams and other Liquors, a Sabbath-breaker, and addicted to other Vices. As for the Crime he died for, he utterly denied the Fact, and made the most solemn Protestations imaginable, that he did nothing which could wrong or murther John Waller . And after all could be said to induce him to a Confession, he still remained inflexible in his Denial of the Fact. He wept pretty often, and in Chappel made regular Responses, was very attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, and sung Psalms with a laudable Voice; and he read or repeated all the Prayers after me. He declared himself a sincere Penitent for all the Sins of his Life; that he believed in Christ as the Son of God and Saviour of Sinners, through whose Merits and Intercession he hop'd

for Salvation; and that he heartily forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected forgiveness from God.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

John Johnson , alias Drew , was very sick, weak, and light-headed, and cou'd speak nothing to the Purpose. John Bumpus own'd that he was a wicked perverse Boy, and that he was drawn away with the worst of Company, which he preferr'd before the wholesome Councils of his Friends and Relations. Charles-Patrick said that he had been one of the most wicked Boys upon Earth, but he hop'd in God's Mercy, through Jesus Christ; and desired me to publish the two Papers under his own Hand, in Vindication of his poor old Mother, which he gave to me on Sunday last. William Mead was a very wicked young Man, as he own'd, but added no more to his Confessions. Viner White said he had committed no more Robberies on the Highway but that on the Rev. Mr. Smith, and what he did that Day, and that he forgave every Body. John Vaughan owned that he was one of the most profligate young Fellows in the World, in Whoring, Drinking, Gaming, &c. but that he committed no more Highway-Robberies, save the one for which he died; and that his doing so was nothing but the Effect of Drink. Edward Perkins said that he was a most naughty worthless Boy, and that he suffered most deservedly for his Villainies. John Mackgraidy acknowledged to the same Purpose, and that (excepting Murder, which he always abhorred) there was scarce a Sin he had not committed. Benjamin Lowder , alias Loveday or Loveden , adhered to his former Confessions, denying the Crime he was convicted of. Mr. Shelton had no more to say, but trusted in God's Mercy, saying that he had made his Peace with God, desired to be remembred in Duty to all his Friends, and prayed God to bless me for the Good Advices I gave them. Before he was thrown off, he desired the People to take Example by him, whose Foolishness and inconsiderate Actions had brought him to such Contempt and Shame. William Flemming own'd that he was one of the most wicked young Fellows in the World, that he was willing to confess every Thing, that he was grieved for his Offences, and had Hopes in the Mercy of God through Christ. Dalton acknowledged his inhumanly treating of Waller upon the Pillory, as the Man swore against him, although before he denied it: But Griffith denied the same, and declared so to the People. They were all devout and serious at Prayers and singing of Psalms, and went off the Stage, crying out, that God would have Mercy upon them, and Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

N. B. There was, two or three Weeks ago, in a Paper, call'd Parker's Weekly Journal, a Paragraph inserted by Way of Derision, calling the Chaplain of Newgate great B - p of the Cells; and that on a Day about that Time

there was a great Stir and Confusion in the Chappel. But let every Man know by this, that the said Account is a scandalous malicious Lie, and a false Reflection, without the least Foundation of Truth.

This is all the Account given by me, James Guthrie , Ordinary of Newgate .

The following is an Account of the Life and Actions of Charles Patrick , alias, Capt. Cartouch; which he wrote in the Cells during his Confinement, and was delivered to the Printer the Day before his Execution.

I WAS born in the Parish of St. James's , in the Year 1716, of honest and industrious Parents, who gave me what Education they cou'd afford, and was sufficient for one who was to get his Living in a mechanical Way; (which was what I was designed for) but I always had a greater Inclination for Taw, Chuch farthing, &c. which often induced me to play Truant, whereby I lost a great deal of the Improvement which I ought, and cou'd have made of my Time.

When I arrived to about eleven or twelve Years of Age, I was put Apprentice to a Shoe-Maker , with whom I continued but a short Time, for I had such a strong Inclination for Play, that every Thing which oppos'd it was intollerable: And whenever I was sent any where, I surely got to Taw, Chuck, or Tossing-up, and would continue as long as I could get any Body to play with me: And often my Master would come to seek after me, hearing where I was at play, to whom I would say, when he express'd his Anger at my staying, I had broke some of them, and, if you would have let me alone, I should have broke every one; to which (he replied) I have a good Mind to break your Head. But when he sent any Body else for me, I would reply, I won't come yet, What does he send for me for when I am a breaking them all round. Nor would I come except he came and fetch'd me himself; being always of a daring resolute Spirit, which shewed itself in the ensuing Part of my Life more fully. However, though my Master let me have more Liberty than a great many would have allowed; yet it did not satisfy me, I was uneasy under the Restraint which I resolv'd to be id off. And accordingly I soon left my Master, and betook my self to the Company of Thieves and Pick-Pockets, and such like Persons, who frequented Lincoln's-InnFields , Moorfields , &c. who introduced me into an universal Acquaintance amongst the Inhabitants of Lutener's-Lane , Parker'sLane , St. Giles's , &c. and learning to pick Pockets,

I went out with several Youths, who were about my own Size or bigger; and we generally went upon the Sneak, i. e. watching in the Dusk of the Evening; and if we saw a Shop or House open and convenient for our Purpose, one goes in softly and takes what first comes to Hand, which he gives to the other at the Door, and he goes away and Plants, that is, hides it, and we meet again at our Rendezvous; so that if he that went in should be pursued, he has nothing upon him, unless they take hold of him before he can get to his Companion. But whenever it happened that we failed of Success this Way, then we had recourse to picking Pockets; as also upon any publick Shew or Rejoicing, or any other Account where there was a Concourse of People: And I always would be the first in any difficult Enterprize.

And going along one Day with a great Fellow, I saw in a Grocer's-Shop a Bundle

of Linnen lying upon the End of the Counter, and the People were in a little Back-room; I unseen went in, and pull'd the Bundle down, and dragg'd it along to the Door, (for I was not able to carry it) where he took it, and carried it one Way, and I made the best of my Way another. By that Time he had got about an hundred Yards, the People miss'd their Bundle, and presently all was in an Uproar; every one having (as it is usual in such Cases) something to say about it. However, he escap'd with it, and having planted it, he return'd, and there being a Crowd of People about the Door, he mingled amongst them, and ask'd what was the Matter: And being told what he knew before, he replied, I saw a Fellow run a long the Streets with a Bundle at his Back; at which a Man who saw him from the other Side of the Way when he took it up, but thought he had belong'd to it, came to him, and took him by the Collar, saying, I'll swear you are the Man whom I saw take the Bundle up and carry it away; upon which he was carry'd before a Justice, who committed him to Newgate. I hearing the News, went to see him, and he told me where it was hid, and I went and took it out, and carried it to our Fence, and sold it for ten Pound, tho' it was worth near three Times as much; for upon his Trial it was valued to Twenty five Pounds, which was less than the Worth. I then gave him half for his Share, and continued to visit him and to do what Service lay in my Power. However, at the ensuing Sessions he was cast for Transportation. And soon after I lost two or three more of my Comrades: Yet I did not mind it, but continued in the same Way.

And now I got a New Fellow-Man, or Comrade, and we two going out one Night, met another of our Acquaintance, who ask'd us if we should go together, to which we consented. And going into the Strand , we snatch'd off several Hats and Whigs, and I, by Reason of my Shortness, not being able to reach any Man's Head scarcely, I employ'd my self about their Pockets; and we having got seven or eight Handkerchiefs, were going home; but coming along we saw a Man very drunk, who tumbled down against a Bulk, and not being able to get up again, lay still, and sell asleep. As soon as we found he was fast we search'd his Pockets, and took from him about seven Shillings in Silver, and a Silver Watch, his Hat and Whig, and a Pair of Silver Buckles out of his Shoes, and left him to take his Nap out. And when we came home, we sold the Things for four Pounds seven Shillings, and shared the Money amongst us.

The next Night going along Holbourn by my self, I saw an Oyster Woman at a Tavern Door, who presently went into the Tavern with some Oysters: As soon as she was gone, I run to the Tubs, which were all too heavy for me; but there was a Cover in which there was about a Peck and a half of very large ones, which I got upon my Head, and away I went with them to the King's Arms ; and meeting four or five of my Comrades, we made a Bargain that they should spend each One Shilling and Six-pence, and the Oysters were to excuse me; which accordingly we did: And before we left off, we were all very Drunk.

We agreed to turn out that Night altogether, and there being some lusty Fellows amongst us, we ran to any Body we saw, and snatch'd their Handkerchiefs out of their Pockets, not minding tho' they saw us. And if any Body turned upon us, we all fell upon them and beat them till we made them run away, and cry out Murther, and be glad they could get from us at any Rate. So that it was the best way for them to say nothing, but go away contented with what they had lost, for they were sure to suffer if we found that they perceived us.

The following is an Account of the Life and Actions of Joseph Powis , which he wrote in the Cells during his Confinement, and was given to the Printer.

I Was born in the Parish of St. Martin's in the Fields , on the 30th of August, in the Year 1710; what passed in my Infancy I do not remember, except that I us'd to play Truant most enormously, till I was old enough to consider my Loss. When I was about eight Years of Age, the famous Mr. Law, who made so much Noise in France during the Time of the Missippi Company, the Parent of our SouthSea Scheme, erected several Manufactures, particularly one for Smith's Work at Harfleur in Normandy . My Father who was esteemed as skilful a Workman as any at that Time, was pitch'd upon by Mr. Law to manage that as an Overseer, and to teach the Frenchmen the Smith's Trade: He had under him thirty Englishmen, who went over to make up work after the English Fashion, and as many Frenchmen and Boys to be taught, and had on that account a Salary of 4000 Livres per Annum; he took me with him, and left my Mother and a younger Brother here; I have little to say concerning the Place, for I being but a Child, I was not capable of taking Notice of any thing, but passed my time amongst Companions about the same Size of Understanding with myself; only I remember that not only Persons of Maturity, but even Children, were never better pleas'd than when they were doing me some kind Office, and were more especially assiduous in teaching me their Language, by which means I was soon capable of conversing with them; and being then thought a pretty Boy, for I wore my own Flaxen Hair, every House was open for Petit Powis , as they us'd to call me, and happy was they that could have me longest. During the first four or five Months, my Father was troubled with an Ague and Fever, which afflicted me as much as one of my Sense was capable of; but the first Stroke which made any thing of an Impression upon me was the Death of my Mother, which happened when we had been there about half a Year; my Father received a Letter, and on reading which he burst into Tears, I ask'd him, What was the Matter? he looking stedfastly at me, reply'd, your Mother is dead, the Words as he spoke them went thro' my very Soul, and I cry'd very heartily; but however, I soon forgot it, my Father as soon as he had put his Business in Order, left me to the Care of an Englishman and his Wife who kept a House there, and went over to see after my Mother's Burial, and it was a Month before he returned; during which time, I was very ill us'd by those pretended Friends with whom he left me, and I often reflected since, if he had died what a miserable Condition I had been in.

My Father married again, and took a Shop in Chancery-Lane, where he

carried on his Trade, and put me to a Grammar School; I now began to be sensible of the Value of Learning, and to apply myself seriously and heartily to it; but alas! as a just Punishment for my former Neglect of it, now that I began to take Delight in Learning, I was snatch'd from it, for my Father's Circumstances not enabling him to bring me up to a learned Profession, he resolved to make me a Smith , which was his own Business and (Heuis me miserum) from hence may I Date all my Misfortunes, for I never having any great Inclination for Labour, and my Mind running upon something genteel, for want of Ability to acquire the Realities, still catch'd at Shadows, and like a be-nighted Traveller who follows an ignis Fatuus, have run into a Quagmire, from whence I fear I shall never get out again.

But to proceed, I continued enduring Life (for from the Uneasiness of my Mind I cou'd never be said to enjoy any Comfort in the Station I was in) about four Years, during which Time, if ever my Father sent me of any Errand, as sure as I met with any Bookseller's Shop, or Sall in the Way, so surely I was lost for some Hours, but nothing else ever detain'd me, and if I escaped them, I was well enough, I was about fourteen Years old when I first began to learn my Trade or future Dependance, as it was called, and had I made it so, it had been better for me. And at about Eighteen, two young Fellows of my Acquaintance asked me one Day if I had a Mind for a Ramble, I directly reply'd, with all my Heart, never consulting how we were to be fed, nor whether we were to have Elijah's Caterers, the Ravens to bring us Provisions; but away we went like three Asses, with each a Load at his Back; and all put together, Beast and Burthens were scarcely worth three Pence; and thus we trudg'd along, thro' several Towns and Villages, sometimes one Way, and sometimes another, not one of us rightly knowing whether we were going, till we grew Hungry, and not finding any miraculous Support, and not understanding the Begging Trade, began to think of home, and at last all concluded to return, which we did after a Week's Rambling; and this was my first Step towards the Life of a Gentleman. My Father and I being reconciled, I stay'd at home about a Year or near it; but having once got the knack of Gadding, Home became intollerable, so I made another Sally; and then having a Mind to do something extraordinary, and in Order thereto, I got a few Lines in the Tragedy of Julius Caesar by Heart, and having cleaned myself, away I went to Mr. Rich, Master of the New Play-House and offered myself to him, but being of a small Stature, not at that time exceeding five Feet, I did not gain Admitance amongst the Heroes, and Demy Gods as I expected, but was forced to return home, and upon submitting myself to my Father was again received, yet stay'd but a short time before I left him again; but having only my

working Dress on, for he would not let me have my Cloaths.

I took my Opportunity when all the Family were gone to see a Relation a little Way out of Town on a Sunday, to convey myself into the House, and having broke open my Father's Closet, there I found all my things, which I took along with me; but the next Morning my Father finding who had been there, came in search after me, and finding me, charged a Constable with me, and carried me before Sir Thomas Jones , a Justice of the Peace living in Boswel Court , who threatned to send me to Bridewell; but however, upon my promising to go home and never do the like again, my Father let me go home before him to make my Peace with my Mother-in-Law, instead whereof I went to an Acquaintance, and told him of the Indignity which I imagin'd was put upon me, and ask'd his Advice what I should do, he said, his Advice to me was by any means to go home and stay with my Father.

But it being near the Time of Bartholomew-Fair, I went to one Mr. Miller who had a Booth at the Queen'sArms by the Sheep-pens, and to him I engaged myself for one of the Guards to Queen Dido during the Fair ; when the Fair was ended I went with one D-on into Surrey to a little Market Town called Darking ; we being about ten Men and Women, by the Way as we went he made us mountanious Promises of Gain, which wou'd accrue to us by his being intimate with most of the Head People of the Town; and when we came there we found that they knew him indeed, and that he had been there before, but had behaved himself in such a scandalous Manner, that none of them wou'd come near us, nor encourage us: So that being almost starv'd, we from thence went next to Horsham in Sussex , where we far'd still worse, for I was put so much to my Shifts, that Lodging in a little Tenement belonging to an Inn, but a-part from the House, I got into the Kitchen Window sundry times, and took away Victuals and Flower to make a Pudding; and wanting a Pair of Shoes, I one Night took away a new Pair belonging to the Master of the House, which the next Day I put on and very impudently wore thro' the Town; the Man who own'd the Shoes hearing that one of the Players had got a new Pair (which was a great Wonder) he came the next Morning to my Room and knew the Shoes; but however, knowing the Condition we were in, he contented himself with threatning me severely if ever I came there again, and so let me go about my Business, with a great Pair of old Shoes on, into either whereof I could have thrust both my Feet with ease; however, I went along with a heavy Heart, and being a Clay Ground and having rain'd lately, I was often stuck fast; at last my Foot sticking and I pulling, pull'd the Sole from the Upper-Leather of one of my great Shoes, at the same time it began to rain very furiously, I was now in a worse Condition than ever, but making all

the Haste my unarmed Foot wou'd let me, at last I spy'd a Barn close by the Road, and it being about Noon, the Men were all gone to Dinner, which however I knew not, but I went in and covered myself all over in the Pease, which lay therein for threshing (I have forgot to tell you that I had made away with all my Cloaths during the time of my being a Gentleman) before I had been there a Quarter of an Hour in comes the Men and falls to the Threshing most furiously, and ever and anon, I cou'd hear them rustling, and fetching down more very near my Head, which oblig'd me to creep into the Pease for Shelter; however, Night coming on they went away and left me to consider by myself what I had best to do; I resolved after a little Consideration to go back again, and crawling out to put my Design in force, I found a curious Fowling-Piece thrust in amongst the Pease, which I not having any present Use for left it behind me, and made the best of my Way for Horsham; when I came there it was so late that almost every Body was gone to Bed, so that I was not seen by any one; I went to the Inn directly and mounted up into the Hay-Loft, where I lay still till I saw a proper Time, and then went in at the Window as formerly, and instead of going to the Pantry as I us'd to do, I got the Door of the publick Room open, where I found a Pair of Boots and Stockings which I put on, and then forc'd open a Cupboard in the Bar, from whence I took a Bottle of Rum, a Piece of Loaf Sugar, three Lemons, and one Shilling in Half-pence; having got what I thought fitting there, I went to the Pantry and refeshed myself very comfortly with a Piece of cold Pye there, and took a Loaf along with my other Plunder, and hid it altogether in the Hay-Loft, and then laid myself down to rest for I was very weary; there I continued all that Day until they were gone to Bed at Night, and then went to my usual Entrance, but nothing was there to be carried away but a Handkerchief and a Belt, and filling my Belly went away again to roost in the Hay-Loft, as naturally as if I had been bred there; the People of the House finding their Provisions waste in the Night, almost as fast as they did in the Day, had a Mind to know what hungry Spirit it was that haunted their House; in order thereto the Master of the House and our Heroe Dutton getting each of them a furious long Gun charg'd, lay in wait for the Spirit, who they suspected to be their Hostler, and whom they had turned away upon that Account; but that Night having a Mind to some Beer in the Town, and to hear what Discourse pass'd concerning my Exploits, I went to a House with Haybands round my Boots, Waist and Hat, which was slouch'd, and thus thinking not to be known; but I was mistaken, for they knew my Face and Voice, and before I had been out a Quarter of an Hour it was known all over the Town, that the little Player was seen there; the People of the

House were no longer at a Loss to know who had plunder'd them, and instead of waiting for me, they resolved to search all over the Town but they wou'd find me if there, while others were dispatch'd along the Roads to over-take me if I were gone.

Now was I got to my Nest again, not thinking I shou'd been discover'd, but was scarce gone to sleep e're I felt a Hand pull me up from the Hay where I lay, saying to me at the same time, Ha! Mr. Powis, have we gotten you, looking up at this in a very great Surprize, I perceiv'd the Master of the House, Dutton and another Man; they carried me into the Publick Room and began to examine me, but partly thro' surprize, and being waked out of my Sleep, and not having a Mind that they should know any more than they could find out, I spoke not a Word; they then went to my Nest, and examining it, found the Things which I told you of before; upon seeing which and the Boots and Stockings making the Matter clearer, I told them how I got in; and in short, own'd the Whole of every Thing. They then sent for a Constable, and charg'd me, and went to see if the Justice was at Leisure, but he, it seems, was gone out of Town: (So thought I, I have spun my self a fine Thread to swing to Heaven in) And they hired thereupon a couple of sturdy Fellows to sit up with me, who were reckoned the stoutest Men in the whole Town; so I thought If I got from them, it must be by some Policy or other.

Now were all the Family gone to Bed and left me, and the two Fellows, with Beer and Tobacco before us enough to make us all drunk; of which I pretended to drink very heartily, and took the Pot oftner than it came to my Turn, and at last pretended to fall fast asleep, and snored enormously, but at the same Time heard all they said: Z-ds, says one, how sound the poor Fellow sleeps notwithstanding his Misfortune: Ah, says the Second, being almost as fast asleep, really as I was seemingly. Jack, cries the First, you are asleep: No, says the Second, but I am very sleepy; do let me sleep for an Hour and then wake me, and I'll watch while you sleep: Agreed, says the First, and so the Second settled himself to sleep, and in a Quarter of an Hour the first overtook him: As soon as I found they were both fast, I rose and went towards the Place where they had hung the Boots, which they had pull'd off as soon as they had taken me; But before I could get at 'em, the Master of the House wak'd, and not hearing any Noise, calls to one of them by his Name, who not answering, he jumpt out of Bed, and came down Stairs to wake them: I, as soon as I heard him move, got into my Place, and was as fast asleep as ever; prithee, says he to them, don't sleep, you'll let the Man get away: On which they rouz'd; no, says they, we won't. Upon which the Master of the House went up to Bed again, and in a few Minutes my Guards were relaps'd in

to a State of Insensibility. I got down the Boots, open'd the inner Door, went into the Yard, and opening the Yard Door, went just without, and was going to draw them on, when the Door fell too with a Noise that shook the whole House, which made me run with them in my Hand all along the Dirt, till I came to a little kind of a Hovel, which was open, and in I went; and having drawn them on as well as I could for my wet Stockings, and finding no Body pursued me, I proceeded forward on my Journey for London , as knowing it was not my Business to remain in those Parts.

As soon as I was got about half a Mile from the Town, I came to a very large Common, and for my Life I could not find my Way out, so that I was forced to take Shelter in an old Cow-house, which was fill'd with Bundles of Flax, amongst which I lay still till Day-light, when the Owner came that Way, and finding his Flax tumbled, he went to put it in Order again, in doing which, he uncover'd me, and ask'd me what I did there; I told him that I had got a little in Liquor the Night before, and could not find my Way out of the Common, so was oblig'd by the Cold to take Shelter there: It happen'd that he knew nothing at all of my Story or me; so laughing at my telling how I had wander'd round the Common, put me in my Road, which I pursued, not without Fears that every one was come to retake me. However, I met nothing remarkable till I came to Darking, into which I wohld not enter till dark Night. And as I was going through the Town, I heard a Door open, and turning my Head to the Noise, I saw a Woman, who call'd to me to come to her. I came, and ask'd her what she would have with me: She turn'd to another Woman and said, It is he sure enough; and says to me Come in, lest any Body should see you: So I went in, and they prov'd the People used to wash my Linnen. Whilst I was in this Town, they told me, I must take Care of my self, for every Body in this Town knew of my Exploits, and that the two Men from whom I had Escaped, had been to seek after me; but not finding I had been there, concluded that I was gone another way, and so returned. We all wondered that they neither saw me, nor I them, for I came along the main Road: They said, they fancied it was me as soon as they heard the Noise of my Boots, advising me not to slay near the Town, but make the best of my Way for London : I said, that was my Intent, and so took my Leave of them.

But I went but a little way out of Town and hid my self till Night, and then returned into Town, and getting into a Farm House I took away two or three Books, a Knife and Fork, a Penknife, a pair of Seizars, a Silver Spoon, a couple of Handkerchiefs, and some other Trifles, and some Victuals, and so in the Morning pursued my Journey for London; but it rained hard most part of that Day, so that I could not reach London that Night; but coming to a Place call'd

Stockwell , where my Mother-in-Law's Father kept a Publick House, I went into the Back-yard, wherein was a Barn, and they had been threshing Wheat that Day, and had lain the Straw in Trusses under a kind of Penthouse, I got in amongst them, and lay very warm that Night; and about the middle of the Night I heard something alive, as I thought, amongst the Straw, I list'ned attentively, and at last perceived it to be very near me, so that I laid hold of it, and perceived that it was one of the Female Sex; who frighten'd at finding somebody there, cry'd, who's there: I reply'd, Here's no Body that will hurt you. She then said she was put Apprentice to a Mantua-Maker, who, because her Friends lived a great way off, used her so hard, as obliged her to leave them; and that she was going down to her Friends who lived at Canterbury. It being very cold, we crept close together, and, in short, I found her to be a good natur'd tractable Girl, and having tired our selves, we by Consent fell to sleep, and in the Morning, when I awoke, I found my Bed fellow gone, and the Threshers come to Work, by Reason whereof I was forc'd to lye still till Night.

I continued shifting about without doing any base Trick for near a Month; going to see first one Acquaintance, and then another, till they were all tired of me: And one Day I went to see Joseph Paterson , a young Fellow, a Player, who had been in the Country with me: He ask'd me if I had a Mind to act a Part in the Tagedy of the Earl of Essex for a Friend of his. I consented, and went with him to Windmill-Hill , which is a common Resort for all the conceited idle young Fellows in Town: Every one fancies himself to be a Cicero, or a Betterton, when scarcely one in a Hundred can speak English: However, I received my Part, and the Day was fix'd, and Bills were stuck up, (the Part of Lord Burleigh, by a young Gentleman who never perform'd there before) which was my Part. But when I came upon the Stage, had even Heraclitus been a Spectator, he would have burst his Sides with laughing at my Figure: For instead of a rich Suit, agreeable to the Character I represented, they had provided me an old Miser's Coat which reach'd down to my Ankles; and I having never a clean Shirt, and my black Hands and Face, all together, concurred to make me a very uncommon Hero: And the People laughing at me, put me so out of Countenance, as made the Performance like my Dress, very indifferent.

I went to the Master, Chancery-Office, in Chancery-Lane , where I had been before, and finding the Hole not stopt up, I got in, and finding the Drawer of the Great Table lock'd, I with some Difficulty got it open, and found therein upwards of four Pounds in Silver, and half a Guinea in Gold, and several Trifles, as a Pocket-Book garnish'd with Silver, a Silver Seal, and amongst some Papers I found three

Letters of so extraordinary a Nature, that I knowing the Hand in which two of them was written, put them in my Pocket, they belong'd to -, Clerk to the Masters, and were in his Drawer; as soon as I got to a Place where I had an Opportunity I began to read them, but they were so very shocking that I could not go thro' them, one was Anonymous, the other two were sign'd, Molly Soft-buttocks.

I unwarily shew'd them as something very uncommon to several People, some of whom owing me no Goodwill, industriously spread a Report that I was a Sodomite, and that I thereby got my Living, urging as a Proof thereof, what a great deal of Money I spent, which they said, I could not get honestly, (there they were right) and what contributed to this Report, was my going one Evening to pay a Visit to some young Women in the City, where I had been introduced some time before by an Acquaintance; I had Occasion to take out a Letter-Case, in which they were amongst my other Papers, and instead of putting it into my Pocket again, I put it beside, and it fell to the Ground. As I went in Quality of a Suitor to one of them, the Priviledge which it is natural for a young Woman to take over those, who profess themselves Slaves to her Beauty, and a Female Curiosity concurring, caus'd them to examine it; in order thereto my Mistress and her Companion, who first saw it, being unwilling to be disturbed by any Person in the perusual thereof, and lock'd themselves into a Closet, and there amongst the rest they found the aforesaid Letters, which they needed not to read thro' for the Subject was plainly to be discerned at first Sight, or even by the Name at the Bottom. By this Time I miss'd my Letter-Case, and running back, I ask'd if any Body had seen it? my Mistress who came to the Door, replied very smartly, Yes, Miss Tooke, there it is. I was not able to speak for a Minute or two, I was so confounded; for as I came along I fancy'd that if they read it they wou'd then certainly believe that Report which before they had oppos'd; at last I took Courage to ask her, what she meant by calling me so? she replied, the Gentleman who was waiting for me under the Pizza would inform me; I knew by this that they had read them, for one of them began thus (Dear Miss Sukey Tooke) and appointed an Assignation under the Pizza in Covent-Garden; I protested that I was no way concerned in them, and told them who they belong'd to; in short, shewed his Pocket-Book, which was garnish'd with Silver, and had his Name on it, of the same Hand with the two Letters; and the Knowledge of my Innocence added such force and energy to my Asseverations, that they believed me innocent; but finding the ill Consequence of carrying them about me, I by the Advice of a Friend burnt them, and in a little Time after, the World finding my Behaviour to

contradict those Reports, as it had always done, began to forget them, and to esteem me again as a Man who had always too great an Inclination for the Fair Sex, ever to be concern'd with such Monsters, who if I could have my Desire, should not live to enjoy the common Advantage of Nature, but be cut off as they do mad Dogs to prevent Mischief.

On Monday the 11th of September, 1732, I was brought down to receive Sentence of Death, and being ask'd by the Judge, what I had to say, why Sentence should not pass upon me? I delivered the following Speech Extempore to the Honourable Court.

'I AM descended of honest and reputable Parents, who gave me a liberal Education, and instilled in my Breast the Principles of Religion and Virtue, and always endeavoured to create in me, an Abhorrence of any thing that was base, or would bring an Odium either on myself, or Family.

Neither have I a natural or habitual Tendency to a vicious Course of Life. The former Misfortune in which I was involved, was caus'd by my Confidence of a false Friend, who left the Things which he had stolen in my Custody, and escaped the Misfortune which light upon me. In this for which I am now brought before your Lordship; neither my Will nor my Reason was concerned, I was hurried on to the Commission thereof by the Disguise of Liquor, and some strange Fatality against which, I should have been more guarded had I been sober; I would not be hereby thought to urge my Innocence: No, my Lord, I own I deserve Punishment, for laying myself open to such a Temptation; but humbly beg, my Lord, that Justice may be allayed with Mercy, that my Punishment may be such, that I may live to make the World amends for any Faults I either have, or am suppos'd to have committed. My Lord, I am of an Occupation which enables me to support myself creditably without having recourse to any mean or base Arts to the Detriment of Mankind; wherefore, I most humbly intreat your Lordship and this honourable Court to take pitty on my tender Years; and to represent my Case so favourably to his Majesty, that this terrible Sentence of Death, which I now am under may be chang'd to Banishment, tho' for Life. And I do sincerely Promise and assure your Lordship, that the rest of my Life shall be employed in returning God and your Lordship Thanks for the Mercy which is shewn to me. And now having said what I have to say, I humbly submit myself to your Lordship's Mercy.

The following is an Account of Mr. Drew's Robberies, which he gave to the Printer of this Paper, two Days before his Execution.

MR. James Drew was brought up at the Grammer School at Hadenham in Cambridgeshire , till he was Sixteen Years of Age; and from thence

came up to London , where he went on liking to the King's-Arms Tavern near Temple-Bar , and lived there nine Months; but not agreeing with his Master on Account of Money to bind him Apprentice, went for Cambridge , and lived faithfully and truly for near Seven Years, soberly and honestly at the Rose Tavern in Cambridge ; from thence he went to Wisbech , and lived with the Gentlewoman that kept the Bell Inn there, for about half a Year; from thence he came to London, where he continued a long Time out of Business, and was reduced to a very deplorable Condition; after which he had the good Fortune to get into a very good Place behind the Royal Exchange , were he lived about three Quarters of a Year in good Repute well respected; from thence he went to the Rummer Tavern in the Strand , and lived there near twelve Months; from thence he went to the Lebeck's-Head in Maiden-Lane , where he lived at Times between three and four Years; there getting acquainted with Common Women, neglected to mind his Business to such a Pitch, as to mind nothing but Whoring, Drinking and Riding abroad; this he continued for sometime, till all his Substance was Squandred away, so that he was reduced to the Necessity of Subsisting on the Women whom he kept Company with. About four Years ago he went from London to New Market , there lived at the Red-Lyon Inn for the Time of the Meeting, and was well respected by the Nobility and Gentry coming to the House, most of them knowing him. After the Meeting was up, he went to live again at the Rose Tavern in Cambridge , and lived there three Quarters of a Year; from thence he went to Ely , and there he took the Lamb-Inn , which he kept almost twelve Months; the latter Part of which Time he unfortunately was oblig'd to come to London to buy Wines, instead of which, he always spent the Money on Women of the Town, but he had the Wine on Credit, which he always told his Wife he had paid for: That after he had been Married about twelve Months, he left his Wife (which was about two Years and a half ago) finding his Business decaying, and fearing being thrown into a Gaol for the Debt he had contracted. That after he had left his Wife, he sent a Person from Cambridge to Ely to Cry his Goods, and make the most of them that could be got for a present Supply. Some of which Money he order'd to be paid to his Wife, not being willing to leave her quite Destitute, and the Remainder he received himself in London , which amounted only to fifteen Guineas, a great many of the Goods and Things being left for his Wifes use. That when he came to London again, he could not refrain his old Course of Life, but got into Company with loose Women, and lived a very wicked Life with them so long as his Money lasted; which being gone, he then betook himself to the Highway, and committed several Robberies on Putney-Common , and in a

Lane leading from little Chelsea to Hyde Park-Gate , next Kensington .

About two Years ago, on Putney-Common he stopped a Coach, and the Gentleman and Ladies in the Coach not readily pulling down the Glass, he broke it in Pieces with his Pistol, and took from them a very fine chaced gold Watch and Chain, and a set of Tweazer Cases, a very beautiful Diamond Ring, and some Money; that he frequently robbed the Stage Coaches going over Epping-Forest . That once having stopped a Chariot in the same Lane before mentioned, wherein was only an old Gentlewoman and her Maid, and finding no Booty, was Riding off pretty fast, was suspected for a Highwayman, and being a little fearful, was turning short through the Park-Gate, when one of the Keepers struck him over the Back with his Staff, which almost knocked him off his House, and he had much ado to recover himself, but did, and rode through the Park in Sight of a great Number of People, and got clear off.

That coming from Edgwear , he robbed the Edgwear Stage Coach of a Silver Watch, Rings and some Pocket Pieces: That he came home to his Lodgings in York-Buildings in the Strand that Night, and the next Morning looking out of the Window, see the Boy that looked after the Mare that he had rode on the Day before with some Constables, judged it was to take him, on which he jumped out of a two pair of Stairs Window, on a pair of Leads belonging to the next House without any Cloaths on, and was carry'd down to Whitehall in a Chair, through the Assistance of the Gentlewoman of the next House, to whom he complained that he was pursued by Bailiffs, and was afraid of being Arrested: That his Servant came to him and, told him the Chairmen were taken into Custody, and that it would be safe for him to continue were he was; on which he went to Westminster , in order to go to Marble Hall on the other Side of the Water, a House where he frequently used, having first borrowed a Hat, Coat, Shoes and Stockings; from Marble-Hall he came to the Pewter-Pot-Inn in Leaden-hall-Street , and continued there three or four Days, till he could compleat his Affairs in order to go for Dublin. That he arrived at Dublin the same Day the Duke of Dorset did, being an intire Stranger there could not tell how to live, but applyed himself to some English Gentlemen, who recommended him to keep a Widows Coffee-house near the Parliament House , who gave him the Liberty of shewing the House of Lords there: That he continued to live at the Coffee-house, during the whole Session of Parliament; after that he lived at the Eagle Tavern on Cork-Hill , which was reckon'd the best Tavern in Dublin , and continued there about six Months: That he got acquaintance with one John Conan , while he lived at the Coffee-house in Dublin , whom he always took to be very honest, till once being pursued for taking eighteen Guineas out of an Escrutore, he fur

thered his Escape by locking him up behind the Throne in the Parliament House , for which three Gentlemen had like to have been committed to Newgate there; and one of them was oblig'd to pay the Money, tho' all three Innocent, which Conan hath since told him, and that he was actually the Person that took the Money. That about six Weeks after Conan apply'd to him to give him a Letter of Recommendation to London , on which he sent him word if he would come to him about Eight o'Clock the next Morning, he would give him all the Advice he could; that Conan came at the Time appointed, and told him that his Uncle had heard of his Affair, and had given him Money to carry him over to England , and then persuaded him to come over to England with him, promising him half what he had to bear his Expences over; that he kept Conan in his Room for about a Week waiting for a Wind, and on Saturday they went to Rings-End , and there met with an Acquaintance who with each of 'em a Woman lay there all Night: That on Sunday, Conan was pursued by near twenty Constables, which put them into a great Surprise, but he got him nailed up in a Place were they used to hide Run Goods, and got him clear off, and came off for England the Monday Morning following, and arrived in London about eight Days after. That they had not been long in London , but he took himself to the same Course on the Highway, and sometimes Conan with him, but never would let Conan see him commit any Robbery, always bidding him go to some Place or other, where he would meet him, and there used to Change Horses and send him home: That his Intention of following his old Course was with a View of getting a large Booty, and then to Return to Ireland again, and spend the rest of his Life there, with the Woman that was apprehended with him for the Robbery at Highgate , knowing he could live cheaper there, and in more safety than in England. That since his return from Dublin , he hath committed near twenty Robberies on the Highway, as on Putney Common , the Lane aforesaid, and Epping Forest , particularly Madam Jackson on Putney-Common of a Diamond Ring, a Wedding Ring and five Guineas; says he returned the Wedding Ring to her since his Confinement. That he hath Robbed the Bury, Norwich, Ipswich and Cambridge Stage-Coaches several Times since his Return as well as before he went for Ireland .

That Conan several Times tempted him to Rob Bayes, telling him that he was sure he could make 100 l. or two, which was much better than turning out, but he refus'd to be concern'd till with a great deal of Importunity, he was prevailed on to be concern'd in that Robbery. That some little Time before the Robbery at Bayes's, he Robbed a Gentleman in a Chaise and Pair on Finchley Common of a Silver Watch, and about two Guineas and an half, which is all he can possibly remember. Says that the greatest Prize he ever got was the Watch and Tweazer Case, and Diamond Ring on Putney Common .

N. B. Some Days before Mr. Drew was to suffer, a Person came to him, and ask'd him, if he would sell his Mare, if he wou'd, he wou'd give him fifteen Guineas; he replied, he had Money enough to last him while he liv'd, for he was certain he was a dead Man; besides, says he, the Mare is worth her Skinful of Money, being fit for the best Gentleman of our Profession, and only fit for them; I beg your Pardon, Sir, I suppose you are not one of us; therefore, I shall make a Present of it to my Brother, or to my dear Mrs. Stennet, whom I hope will keep her for my Sake.

The following is an Account of the Robberies of William Shelton , the Apothecary , which was given to the Printer, the Morning of his Execution.

I WAS Born January 13, 1707, at Turnford , in the Parish of Cheshunt , of worthy, honest Parents; my Father being exceedingly fond of me, took an early Care of my Education, putting me to School as soon as I could speak, and continued me there till the Age of Fourteen, at which time I was put Apprentice to Doctor Halsey of Enfield , who was a Licentiate, and made his own Medicines: I continued with him two Years, but being very negligent and careless of Business, and keeping too much (tho' Reputable) Company, and my Master being in a bad State of Health, was not able to give me such Correction as was absolutely requisite for young Sparks in my Lax way of Living, brought him to a Determination of sending me home to my Father, who receiv'd me with too much Tenderness, not believing I deserved the Character my Master gave me, and made it his immediate Care to look out for another Master. Accordingly my Mother went to treat with Mr. Beckington, an Apothecary in Winchester street, who enquiring my Character of Mr. John Scott , a Soap-Boyler , his opposite Neighbour, who had a Country House at Enfield , Mr. Beckington wrote to my Mother, wherein he gave her to understand he liked every Thing very well but my Character; soon after this, unhappy Disappointment my Mother was informed Mr. H-k of Newington wanted an Apprentice, my Service was there offered and Accepted, with whom I served Six Years very honestly, nor did I ever once wrong him of one Farthing, or its Value: I still continuing the love of Company, but generally chose Men of Fashion, and gay airy young Fellows, who sometimes happen'd to have more Witt than Money; who oftentimes largely discanted on the meanness of Servitude, and strongly enticed me to take the same unhappy. Measures I have since come into, strongly urging the agreeable Satisfaction it was for a Man to have always the Command of a full Purse, especially, when it was so easily Obtained: But however, notwithstanding the engaging Arguments that

were used on that Head, I determined to serve out my Time, which was not then above a Year to come; and another Reason which engaged my stay was, during the latter Part of my Time, I had been very Solicitous with my Mistresses Sister (whom I fondly loved) and was so happy as to meet a generous Return; but as those miserable Wretches who commence Lovers, or Lunaticks, which is pretty much the same, when they would be particularly careful to conceal an Amour, generally set it an open Blaze. This was our Case exactly, for when ever her Brother or Sister found fault (which they too often had Reason to do) with my staying too long abroad, or neglecting Business at home, the poor Girl would immediately (with Tears in her Eyes) withdraw, which was soon taken Notice of by my Mistress, who taxed her very home, and soon brought her to Confess what I could have wished had been longer kept a Secret; but as Necessity has no Law, we were obliged to make the best of an indifferent Bargain.

My Mistress on this Discovery, told her, if she married me we would never see or speak to her more. My Mother having been likewise let into the Secret, declared if I marryed her she would never own me as her Son. My Mother's Reason only proceeded from my Mistresses dislike to the Match, which I don't wonder at, because the Company I then kept (tho' Gentlemen) were such as would justly render me a very improper Person to be recommended to a Sober Family: On that footing on the other Hand held the Match in much Contempt, alledging she had no Fortune, which was very true; for she had nothing but her Good Qualifications, and those very sufficient to recommend her to a good Husband.

The Time of my Apprentice being now expired, I began to think of setling my self into Business while my Father was living, whose Age and Infirmities would by no means permit delay. He Approving my Design, order'd me to give him in the Particulars of what was to be done, which I readily comply'd with, tho' in great Pain of Thought of leaving the Object I so dearly loved; but as my Shop was Furnished, there was nothing to be done but to repeat our Promises of Constancy, which we did and parted: I then came to my Shop which was intirely to my Satisfaction, and was resolved to apply to Business, which seemed to Promise very well, the Parish wherein I settled being that of my Nativity from which will be judged I was not long getting Acquaintance, but I still could not refrain keeping Company with young sporting Sparks, that I was pretty sure of finding in the Field, which I too much frequented three Days in a Week (in the Season) by this means I began to forfeit the good Opinion of my Friends, who thought my Inclinations tended more to pleasure than Business. I had not been settled above three Months be

fore I took a particular Nootice of two young Ladies, Daughters of a Widow Lady, who lived opposite to me; the Eldest of the Two soon alter'd my Resolution to my old Mistress, and I Invensibly lost the Memory of her. I was now under greater difficulties than ever, being entirely a Stranger to my intended Mistress, nor did I know any Body that visited the Family: However, by the Assistance of a tolerable Assurance, I soon became Acquainted, and in about three Months married her, but she being under Age, her Mother having pre-engaged her would not hear me, but told me the youngest was at my Service; however, I having gained the Consent of the Eldest resolved not to be baulk'd, stole her by Night, and was oblig'd to marry her in the Liberty of the Fleet ; her Father had been dead about ten Years, and being a Freeman of London I was entitled to her Fortune without any Difficulty; I now began to think myself the happiest Man living; but yet the Thoughts of my old Mistress came pretty fresh into my Mind, tho' I declare, never to the Prejudice of my Wife, (whose dear Memory at this unhappy Juncture gives me unexpressible Pain.) But least I should give the Reader Pain by this Digression, I shall return to my State of Business, which now look'd much better than really it was, by which I mean, I had many Patients but most of them of an indifferent Sort, such as were neither able or willing to discharge their Bills, tho' never so moderate; these Misfortunes join'd with my indifferent Manner of Living, began to reduce my Circumstances to a very low Ebb; about this time I had the Misfortune to loose my Father, who left his whole Effects to my Mother for her Life; this you may imagine was no ways agreeable to the present Position of my Affairs, which were growing daily worse. I found myself oblig'd to give over House-keeping, which I had not kept quite two Years, and resolved on a Voyage to the West-Indies , having treated, and indeed in Part, agreed with a Gentleman here, on behalf of his Friend, a Surgeon on the Island of Antegoa , for which Place I sail'd from Gravesend , March the 18th, 1730, and arrived there, May the 2d, I was received there by the Gentlemen to whom I had Recommendatory Letters, with all possible Marks of a hearty Welcome and Respect; I now began to think myself as happy as ever, and passed over about eight Weeks with much Satisfaction, and was proposing to send for my Wife, in order at least to spend half a Score Years on that agreeable Spot. But as neither that or any other real Happiness continued long in my Favour, this agreeable Prospect of Settlement was soon over-shadowed, by the following Accident. It being the Custom of that Place to exercise their Militia every Week, when each Officer takes it in his Turn to Treat his Brother Officers, and what other Friends he thinks proper, I had the Honour of an Invitation from Colonel Ker on his Day, when after a

very elegant Entertainment, and the Bottle had pass'd very briskly round, myself and some other Friends attempted to take our Leave of the Company, it being pretty late, and we a considerable Way from Home; for which Reason the Colonel pressed very ardently for us to stay all Night, urging that there were several Run-away Negroes which made it very dangerous for People to be out thereabouts late at Night. We thought his Advice very seasonable and consented to stay, but when going to Bed I found myself very Hot, therefore preferred the Hamock to the Bed, and falling a-sleep very soon, it was not long befor I was awaked by a Pain in my Bowels, occasion'd by the thorough Air, the House being neither Wainscoted or White-wash'd; in short, I imagin'd this Disorder proceeded from the Punch I had drank, but was soon convinc'd; for the next Day I found I had a Tenesmas on me, which daily encreasing notwithstanding I us'd the Method I was able, but to no Purpose, was therefore oblig'd to return to England; the Alteration of the Climate being a material Article, my sudden Return very much surpriz'd all my Friends, who had not been advised of my Intent. I was now perswaded by my Friends to settle at Buntingford in Hertfordshire , there being a Vacancy by the Death of an old Practitioner; accordingly I went, but did not find that Prospect of Business that was represented to me, but about three Miles distant, at a little Village called Braffin , I found my Expectations might be answered, provided my Mother-in-Law had made good her Promise, of supplying me with what Money I wanted, and ordered me to take a House which was then to be Lett near the Church, that she might come and join Family with me; accordingly I took the House, and Lett the Land thereunto belonging, and took Earnest in her Name; the Leases were drawn, and only waited for the Party's Signing, which was to have been in a very few Days; but in the mean while my Mother's Mind altered, and she would neither Sign the Leases or let me have any Money, which oblig'd me to leave the Place in a scandalous Manner.

As this Affair had absolutely ruin'd my Character there, which I look'd upon as my last Stake, I was strangely confus'd to know what Course to take to support ourselves in this Extremity; at length I resolved on the unhappy Method I have since practis'd, but as I was entirely a Stranger to such Proceedings, I was nonplus'd how to make a Beginning with Safety, but Necessity soon over-rul'd the trifling Objections that arose; accordingly, having furnished myself with a Brace of Pistols, and hir'd a Horse that I could pretty well depend on, set out for Finchley-Common , but having rode several Hours to no purpose, began to dispair of doing any Thing that Time; therefore, made away for Endfield-Chase to pay a Visit to Brigadier F - s, where I stay'd till Evening, in hopes I should

not fail of something before I reach'd London, and on taking my Leave I thought it might not be improper to ride a little in the back Lanes towards Cheshunt , where I met a Coach with four Ladies in it, from whom I took 1 l. 10 s. they being in an undress, was without Watches; I thought this but very poor Encouragement, and I depended on something better before I got to Town, but my Expectations were not answered, for I attacked a Man near Salmons-Brook , who appeared well, but had not above 3 s. 6 d. which I returned, and rode directly to Town, and met with nothing more that Night, nor did I ride out again for several Days, my Wife being very Ill, I did not think it Safe to leave her. My next Ride was to Epping - Forrest , where I stop'd the Stortford Stage-Coach, out of which I had about 6 l. three Silver Watches, but was immediately pursued by four Gentlemen, whom I did not see tho' they were very near me, which oblig'd me to try my Horse's Speed; I had not rode half a Mile before I fell in with some of his Majesty's Grooms Breathing their Hunters, two of these had got the Alarm of a Highwayman, which oblig'd me to keep on my Mask, and my Pistol in my Hand; in this Manner I rode between two of them, one of which had a Led Horse, which on my riding hastily through broke away, whereby I got clear of them; I then bore away for Waltham-Abbey , but finding my Pursuers very near, I judg'd it improper to go thro' the Town, took the Right-hand Road, and returned to part of Epping-Forrest , and went directly for Harlow , where I stay'd till Evening, and then returned to London , but heard my Pursuers came through Waltham-Abbey , and on-ward to the Post-house at Enfield , and then gave over the Pursuit; this Adventure pleas'd me much better than the First, and brought me to a Resolution of sticking close to my new Occupation, which seem'd to agree very well with my roving Disposition. In a very few Days I took the other Ride on Hounslow-Heath , where I meeting with a Gentleman, gave him him the usual Salutation, telling him I was very Necessitous, he seem'd a little unwilling to part with his Money, but I begged him not to trifle, or think me the less in earnest for treating him with good Manners; he told me, he did not, and assured me he wou'd give me his All, which was 32 Guineas, and 15 Shillings in Silver, I then made away for Richmond , where I stay'd till Afternoon, in hopes of meeting the Stage-Coaches, which came in just as I got on Horse-back; from thence I rode to Putney-Common , where after some time sauntring about, I met a Chariot with two well dress'd Ladies in it, whom I addressed with all the good Manners I was Master of, gently taking up their Aprons, and stroaking down their Gloves to search for Watches or Rings, but the poor Ladies assured me they had been robbed a little before by a Gentleman on a Grey Mare; this I have found since to be

true, for the Person who did it is now under the same Circumstances as my self; which was Mr. Drew, alias Johnson.

Not much discouraged at this, I took a little Circuit round, and made for London, when in the Fields between Wandsworth and Putney , I met an old grave Puritan, from whom I took about nine Pound, and went quietly home: But having a Sum of Money to pay the next Day, I was obliged to rise pretty early to meet the Northampton Stage, from which I took twenty seven Pound odd Money, and gave over for that Day, and made good the Payment according to my Engagement.

My next Airing was towards Enfield , when I stopt Mr. Lloyd a Distiller and his Lady in an open Chaise, near Salmon's Brook , from whom I took about ten Shillings, his Lady being much surprized, I did not make any farther Search, but rode a little out of that Road towards Southgate, where I met a Mourning Coach and Six, which I stopt, but finding nothing therein but Undertakers Servants, did not think it worth while to examine the Contents of their Pockets, so kept jogging on; but had no other Opportunity of attacking any Thing of Worth that Night.

My next Ride was towards Chiswick , on Purpose to meet a certain Colonel, of whom I had private Notice; but as I was well assured he would know my Face, and I had some Reason to fear my Voice to. This raised some Scruples, which had like to have thrown me out of the Seat of my Resolution: But as Necessity has no Law, I was obliged to run the Risque of all that could happen. I waited a considerable Time before he came; at length I saw him and his Servant appear, and, to my Comfort, his Servant had no Pistols: Thus encouraged, I clapt on my Mask about three or four hundred Yards distant from him, on which he immediately prepared for his Defence, by advancing with his Pistol cock'd; I thought it best to receive his first Fire, purely for the Advantage of the last Pistol, which I obtained, though his first Shot had like to have spoiled my Sport, for the Ball grazing on my Horse's Shoulder, took away the Skin for several Inches: I returned his Fire without Damage to Him or Horse; upon which he discharged a second Time to as little Purpose. I then desired the Favour of his Purse, which he readily gave me; in which was fifty Pound odd Money, but I was obliged to take a tedious Circuit before I dare venture on the London Road again.

My next Adventure was about a Week after, which was on Finchley Common , where I stopt a Chariot, and took ten Guineas, two gold Watches, and some Silver; but no sooner was the Chariot moved, but I saw several Horsemen, who had not yet got the Alarm, nor was it long before they had, for I found them gain Ground on me, which obliged me to mend my Pace, and in about five Miles riding got clear of them. I now found my self on Enfield-Chace , and made for Muswell-Hill , where I stopt a Chaise with a Man and

Woman in it, and took from them a Moidore and three half Crowns, and wished them well to Town. I had not rode a quarter of a Mile before I perceived my self again followed by a Man on a very good black Gelding, but I was so happy as to clear my self of him, and got safe to Town. I had not rode above two or three Mile, but crossing the Road, I headed the Chaise which I had just before robbed, on which they called out Highwayman; on which I clapt Spurs to my Horse, and struck up a Lane where I was obliged to ride near five hundred Yards in a stiff Slough; when I came up to the further End of the Lane, there was a very high Gate, which put me to a Nonplus; but knowing if I returned I should be inevitably taken, broke thro' the Hedge, and rode through some Fields; the last of which, just as I was going to enter into it, I saw my Pursuers waiting my coming, when turning short, I found there was no way of saving my self but by going down a very great Precipice, which with some Difficulty I passed, and got clear to Town, and at the End of Old-street in Goswellstreet , was so unfortunate as to overtake the same Chaise again, and with a great deal of Difficulty got clear of it, they calling out Highwayman all down Old-street , but could not over-take me, when I turned into the Dog-bar, and so got into Town. And after having quitted my Horse, met the Person on Foot that I had just before robbed, but believe he did not see me; I stay'd at home about ten Days, being a little indisposed.

My next Ride was the Enfield Road , part on account of my Health, though not without some View of Business. I sauntered about several Hours, and nothing came in my Way till Dark, when I met the Endfield Stage Coach from London out of the Road to Burrystreet: I passed it, but perceiving the Coach to stop in crossing a little Brook to let the Horses drink, when I turned back with a Mask on, and went into the watering Place to give my Horse a little Water, and at the same Time let the Passengers know my Errand: There was a Publick-House close to the Brook, where several People were at Nine-pins for a silver Cup: They soon perceived what I was at, and immediately all surrounded the Brook, thinking themselves sure of me; but on firing a Pistol over their Heads, and at the same Time pushing my Horse pretty briskly, easily got clear of them.

I some few Days after took a Ride the Bath Road to Hertford , where I spent the Day in Pleasure, without any View of Business: On my Return in the Evening, I over-heard two Fellows wishing they might meet Dr. Shelton, at the same Time swearing they would not spare him an Inch: Upon this I stopt my Horse, if possible to see how these Gentry was prepared for such an Undertaking. They very soon cross'd a Stile into the Road to Hodsdon: They were both pretty lusty Fellows, and each had on his Shoulder a large Hedgestake. Upon which I called to the first, who coming to me, I clapt my Pistol to his Breast, obliging him to throw

away his Weapon, and deliver his Money, which was about Three-pence Half-penny. I called his Companion, and served him the same Sauce, who had about Four-pence. I then laugh'd at them a little, gave them their Money and rode off about my Business.

I sometime after returned to Finchley Common , where I met the Northampton Stage Coach, from which I took about fifteen or sixteen Pounds, and one gold and three silver Watches. I returned home, the Day being pretty far spent, and I well contented with the Success or it, and did not ride out for some Weeks; and indeed, stayed till I had pretty well spent the Cash: At which Time I had a Proposal made to me of robbing Stanford-Hill Turnpike, which I readily agreed to, being pretty low in the Pocket: Accordingly about ten at Night, we walked out of Town, judging Horses would rather be a Hindrance than Useful; but when we came to the Upshot, both my Companions declined the Attempt. This past, our next Resolution was to knock up Mr. H-ks's Servant, under Pretence of a Patient's being extraordinary ill. In short, he arose and came with the Messenger: They stopt him mostly themselves, for as they declined the Turnpike Business, I would have little to do in this Affair: However they took from him about Six Shillings and Six-pence, his Coat and Cane; the two latter they said they took for Diversion.

This ended, we came to Town, and I did not do any thing considerable till Hounstow Races. In my Return from which, I stopt two Gentlemen, who drove themselves in a Chaise and Pair, and had a Case of Pistols before them: I riding briskly up to them, secured their Pistols, and demanded their Money, which was about sixteen Pound, two Gold Watches, a Diamond Ring and some Silver. This done I came home, and did not go abroad till the Day before I was apprehended, when I gave the Oxford Stage Coach a Meeting, and from it and two other foreign Stage Coaches, I took from it about ninety five Pound and four Watches.

Not having Room, we are obliged to put the remaining Part of Mr. Shelcon's Robberies in Applebee's Journal of next Saturday.

N. B. On Tuesday the 17th of this Instant, will be Published, by the Printer of this Paper; the Life and Actions of Joseph Powis , written by himself during his Confinement in the Cells, with his Effigy drawn by himself.

FINIS.

