THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and last dying Words of the Five Malefactors, Executed at Tyburn on Friday the 28th of this Instant August, 1724.

AT the King's Commission of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, &c. held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , before the Right Honourable Sir Peter Delme , Knt . and Lord Mayor of the City of London ; Mr. Justice Dormer, and John Raby , Esq ; Sergeant at Law ; and several of His MAJESTY's Justices of the Peace (for the City of London and County of Middlesex; on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 8th, 9th, and 10th of July, in the Tenth Year of His MAJESTY's Reign, Five Men and two Women were convicted of Capital Offences, and accordingly receiv'd Sentence of Death. The two Women pleading pregnancy, and (found to be such) were respited from Deth, in order (as we hear) for Transportation.

The Behaviour of 4 of those Men, who lay under Sentence was such, as demonstrated to the World their just abhorrence of their Crimes, and their lively Apprehensions of their near approaching Sufferings for them. They were constant Attendants on the Service in the Chapel (exceed that Sickness prevented) behaving there with the decorum of sincere Penitents; in the Dungeon as Men making provision for a happy Eternity, spending their last Moments chiefly in Reading, and Praying; being frequently Admonish'd thereto from the Bulpit, and in the Closer from different Portions of the Sacred Scriptures.

On the Sunday before Execution they heard two Sermons; that the in the Morning grounded on the 7th Verse of the 139th Psalm, Whither shall I go from thy Spirit; or whither shall I flee from thy Presence? That in the Afternoon upon the latter part of the 32d Verse of the 15th Chapter of the first Epistle to the Corinthians, Let us eat and drink, for to Morrow we die. From the former Words we asserted, and prov'd the Omnipresence of God, and, Secondly, show'd what influence it ought to have over the Conduct of our Lives in general; and Thirdly, made it applicable to the sorrowful dying part of the Audience, Exhorting them, that whereas they had not set God before their Eyes, and as little dreamt that they were under

his (as by their sad Experience they could tell the World) they should now behave as Men before their Eye witness, and impartial Judge, that to sham a Repentance; but now to begin, carry on, and finish such an one, of which they will have no occasion to Repent when launch'd into Eternity. From the latter Words, Let us eat and drink, for to Morrow we die. We took occasion to refute the Sadducean Epicure, explode his Tenet, and expose his Leviathan Life, by the ample, undeniable Proof of an universal Resurrection, and a general Judgment consequent thereupon. 2dly, We show'd in three or four Instances God's great End and Design in appointing them; and then shut up all with an Application suitable to those more immediately under our Care; perswading them to look upon themselves as Men accountable unto God; (and that in a few days) not only for the Actions of Life, but for every idle wicked Word they have spoke in it; hoping that what great Truths we had deliver'd, they would embrace, and so believe that they would turn back to their Eyes upon the Scene of a wicked mispent Life, and condemn themselves for it here, that they be not Sentenc'd hereafter; that they would change their Notes; instead of Singing, Let us eat and drink, for to Morrow we die. Let us to day lye down in Sorrow, and cover our Faces with Shame, for we must in a few days meet the King of Terrors in the Face; and after he has sent us to our silent Graves; the King of Heaven will issue out his Habeas Corpus for our removal thence, in order to take our Tryals at the general an universal Assize.

The Account of the Lives of these Malefactors.

1. JOHN HORN , aged 32, convicted of assaulting, Edward Abberathoc on the Highway, between Kentish Town and Hampstead , and taking from him a Watch, and five Shillings in Money May 31. Said, he was born at Middleton , in the County Palatine of Durham . and of honest Parents; that his Father was a Yeoman of about Thirty Pounds per Annum, and Rented some Land besides; but (the World not Smiling on his Endeavours) he was laid under a necessity of selling his Estate, to satisfy the Debts he had contracted. Notwithstanding this Failure in the World; he took care of his Son John should have a moderate Education, and in order thereto, put him under the care of a Master, who taught him to Read, Write, and cast Accompts, which he became Servant to Captain Selby of Loton in Essex ; in whose Service he continu'd a while, and thence came to London , and became Coachman to several Persons of Distinction, particularly Colonel Bladen. He said that all the Gentlemen, whom he had the honour to Serve, could, and would give Testimonials of his Fidelity and Honesty. But being for a considerable time out of Employ, and so, reduc'd to a very low Ebb of Poverty, he was hurried by mere Necessity to the Commission of the Crime for which he suffer'd; he solemnly declar'd that 'twas his first, and hop'd that God would show him Mercy, tho' he had none from Men.

2. ANTHONY WALRAVEN , convicted of Forging and Counterfeiting Stamps upon Dice, and uttering and vending the same, contrary to a late Act of Parliament. Aged 44, born in Long-Acre , a Watch-maker by Trade, said, his Father was a German, born at Vienna, a Silver-smith by Trade, and a Member of the Roman Church. That came to England, and marrying here with an English Woman, he exercised his Trade aforesaid, in London, and he took care to give his Son Anthony a Competence of Learning to qualify him for a Trade, (and when capable) he bound him Apprentice to Mr. Robert Creed , a Watch-maker , then living in Bell-Alley , in Coleman-street ; with whom he compleated his term of Years; and made such Advances in the Trade, that he came not a jot behind the most ingenious of it: He then married a Woman not very industrious, and had by her two Children; his aged Mother also wholly depended upon his Endeavours; and he said, that his Trade being upon the Decay, insomuch that he could not make a moderate Provision for his Family, put him upon other Measures to do it; so he went, and bought a Quantity of Ivory, and with that some Tools for Stamping of Ivory in the shape of Dice; he learnt of a Soldier how to make use of them, which he did very often, and which now brought him to his shameful Exit; he disown'd that he had committed any Theft or Robbery in his Life, and People who liv'd around him, concur in their Attestations of what he said. During the time he was under Sentence he gave very great Symptoms of a Penitent, and declar'd himself of the Roman Communion , in which he was resolv'd to die, and implor'd the Assistance of God to enable him to encounter Death, and his Mercy through Christ to pardon his Sins.

3. JOHN MERRY , aged 19, was born at at Burford in the County of Oxford ; and convicted of uttering and vending the false Dice stamp'd, by Anth. Walraven aforesaid; he was very meanly Born, and as illiterally Bred, being furnish'd neither with Letters, nor Trade to live in the World, either as Man, or Christian. His Father's employ was driving of Hogs, and having lost a certain Sum of Money in the Exercise of it (by some of his Neighbours going off of the spot) he and his Family were oblig'd, to take Shelter in London , where he follow'd the Business of a Porter. When his Son John came to Maturity he went on Errands , and sold Fruit ; and as he was Industrious to get his Bread honestly, he hapen'd to meet with Anth. Walraven who commiserating his mean way of Life, takes him Home, and employ'd him in selling of Watches for him; in which way he liv'd sometime; but Marrying with a loose Prostitue in the Fleet , who at his Tryal turn'd Evidence against him, and Cohabits with another Man; (now in Newgate) he betook himself to the former Business of selling Fruit, and in a little time met with this Walraven again, who offer'd to Employ him again in selling of Dice, at so much per Pair; which he comply'd with; he said, at first he knew not the Crime, or the Danger of it; but in a small time he was appriz'd of both; since the Death Warrant came he has own'd that he has been very guilty of picking Pockets, and of other pilfering Tricks. He forgave his Wife, who swore his Life away, and would fain have spoke with her two days before his Execution, but she would not, he behav'd very penitent whilst under Sentence.

4. LUMLEY DAVIS , aged 23, convicted of Assaulting John Nichols , Esq ; and taking from him a Guinea, and 17 Shilligs in Silver on the 29th of June last, in Company with his Accomplice James , alias John Harman . Who was a Gentleman born, his Father a Gentleman of a good Estate, near Keinton , in the County of Radnor . This Lumley was furnish'd with a liberal Education under the Tuition of Dr. Friend, head Master of Westminster School, who, at the Age of 14 Commenc'd one of the then Queen's Scholars, and behav'd so as to engage the Affection of all whom he convers'd with; he made such an Advance in his Learning there, that he was remarkably distinguish'd from others of his Standing; but at length his Parents willing and desirous that he should make further Advances till he shou'd become Master of what he had made so good a proficiency in; found him inclin'd to embrace a Mechanick way of Life, and they were perswaded by some of their Friends to alter their Resolutions of farther him in the Classicks, so he was taught the Mathematical Science, in which he was a great Proficient, but finding that this would tend perhaps to a Necessity of his going Abroad; he apply'd to his Friends to fix him in some Trade at Home, with which they comply'd; and bound him to a Vintner at the One Ton near Hungerford Market ; whom he serv'd in quality of an Apprentice a considerable time; but weary of this Yoke he took to rambling from Tavern to Tavern, not fixing any where; so going from Place to Place, and contracting of Debts he was at last Arrested, and thrown into the Marshalsea , where he continu'd a Year, when a good Friend and Relation rmov'd him thence by satisfying his Debts, and Discharging the Prison Dues. Then he went into the Mint, where 'tis suppos'd he had the first Conversation of Mr. Harman his Accomplice, but overtaken with Sickness there, his very good Friend, aforesaid, remov'd him at his own Expence to St. Bartholomew's Hospital till he was wholly recover'd, and then sent him into the Country, and there made Provisions for him; but in a small time he was cloy'd with a Country Life; and so took his Leave of his Brother and his Sister, and came again to London , where unhappily entering into the Conversation of idle loose People, he was reduc'd to Poverty, and then enter'd into indirect Measures to get his Bread by, which this Fact, for which he dyed, does plainly demonstrate, he own'd the Fact, and behav'd under Sentence as a sincere Penitent, particularly after the Dead Warrant came down. He said he was not a married Man before he receiv'd the Sacrament.

5. JAMES HARMAN , convicted of the same Crime with Lumley Davis , aged 27 Years; was born of reputable Parents, his Father a Wine-Cooper, and Merchant, in Canon-street , London . He was Educated at School till he came qualify'd for the University, thence remov'd to Emanuel College , in Cambridge , where he had not been long, before his Mis-application of his Time, and Money, oblig'd him to Retire, and then he exchang'd the Gown for the Sword, getting an Ensign's Commission in Colonel Jones's Regiment, then engag'd in the Reduction of Sicilly , but the Regiment being broke, he was put upon a way of Life, and so happening to meet with Mr. Davis, they enter'd into a strict Covenant one with the

other to follow that way of Life for which they dy'd. They both own'd this Fact, and said it was the first and last, as they were dying Men. Mr. Harman was very Penitent, setting a good Pattern to the rest of his unfortunate Brethren.

An Account of them at the Place of Execution, Anthony Waltaraven a Roman Catholick , dyed seemingly chearful and resign'd, making no Confession.

JOHN HORN , whilst he was under Sentence flattered himself with the hopes of Mercy, but finding them at the Tree to vanish, he dy'd very much shock'd, but said, at his last Breath, that, that was the first Fact he ever committed.

JOHN MERRY , dy'd in great concern, and desir'd me to go to his Sister, with his Love to her; and to desire her that she would forgive, and beg of God to forgive him; for the wrong he did her, in robbing her of five Guinea's, for which Fact she might suspect the Innocent, and that in the Discharge of a good Conscience he thought himself oblig'd to apprize the World of.

Mr. DAVIS, who always liv'd in hopes of Mercy, through the Interest of Persons at the Helm of the Nation; behav'd very chearful till the Warrant came for his Execution, of which he was appriz'd on Monday last. Then he began in good Earnest to make Provision for Eternity, and thought himself a dying Man, making the best use of the few Hours he had to live in his Preparations for the Reception of the Holy Sacrament which was Administred unto him on Wednesday last, with three others, who dy'd with him; as was also on the Day of Execution, he dy'd very unwilling, desiring that the Executioner might not do his Office for some time, and me to lengthen the Service as much as possible. Before the Cart drew away, he saluted his former Acquaintance, Mr. Harman with all the Symptoms of Affection and Reconciliation. He was brought to the Place of Execution in a Hackney-Coach in his Night-Gown, and in which he dy'd, taking his Leave of his fellow Sufferers by Saluting of them.

Mr. Harman, a Man well descended, as appears by his surviving Relalatives, and his own Behaviour; was brought in a Mourning Coach to the Place of Execution attended with a Hearse to bring away his Body, in order to be interr'd in a manner suitable to his Extract and Family. In the Prison and at the Place of Execution his Behaviour was so, as made him appear a true Penitent, he being very instant with God in Prayer for Mercy of his Soul, and forgiveness, for the Errors of his Life. He had not any thing to acquaint the World with, (as he said) that was either a Burden to himself, or would be of Service to his Spectators, but desir'd that all, and every individual a-round him, would (by the view of his Misfortunes) be caution'd to avoid their own, and then by very pious

Ejaculations, and Breathings he resign'd, and recommended his Soul to God, and his Body into the Hands of the Person appointed to satisfy the Law. He dyed very sedate, calm, and penitent, taking his Leave of the World as a Man in assur'd hopes of a better Exchange.

All the five were very intent upon their Devotion at the Tree, and behav'd like Men. Conscious of their Folly, fervently prevailing with God to pardon it, by unfeign'd Prayer, and at the last shook Hands and took their Leaves of each other with the Affection of Brethren.

Mr. Purney the Ordinary of Newgate being lately recover'd of a Fit of Sickness, and gone into the Country to re-establish his Health, hath appointed me his Substitute in his Absence.

JAMES WAGSTAFF

ADVERTISEMENT.

AT the first House on the Right Hand in Crane-Court, near Fetter-Lane, in Fleet-street, a Golden Heart and square Lamp at the Door, you may advise with a regular Surgeon, of very great Experience, who has practised many Years in Spain and Africa, as well as in England, and having devoted most of his Time to the study of Physick and Surgery, has obtain'd so perfect and easy a Method of curing the Venereal Distemper, whether fresh contracted, or of long Continuance, as none else can boast of: He is no Pretender to what he does not understand, being regularly bred a Surgeon in London, and afterwards, by travelling into many Foreign Parts, and acquainting himself with the different Methods of Practice in those Countries, has acquired a never failing Remedy: His Preparations are very gentle, and agreeable to any Constitution; violent Medicines being more pernicious then profitable, (which is the real Cause so many miscarry in Cure) Let none be discouraged by the base and Ignorant Treatment they have met with from unskilful Pretenders, for he Promises a Cure in a little Time without Hindrance of Business, Confinement, Suspicion, or Salivation, even in the most desperate Degree of that loathsome Disease, else desires no Money. Several Persons of Figure have been lately cured by him, after they were given over, as incurable, by Physicians and Surgeons of the greatest Eminency, and been, by them, miserably tortured with Salivations, and other painful Operations. He cures Cancers of few Years standing: likewise any rotten Ulcers, the King's-Evil, or Fistulas, without manual Operation: The Itch he cures in four Days, and the Yellow Jaundice, in Old or Young, in twenty four Hours; as also the Leprosy and Rheumatism, with all other curable Distempers. His Hours are all the Morning till Twelve a-Clock, and from Three till Ten at Night. N. B. Crane-Court turns in betwixt the Sign of the Leg, a Hosier's, and the Ship, a Watch-Makers, near Fetter Lane, Fleet-street.

LONDON : Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bridewell Bridege in Black Fryers .

