THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who was EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 27th of this Instant September, 1736.

BEING THE FIFTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir JOHN WILLIAMS , Knt .

Number V. For the said Year.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXVI.

(Price Six-pence.)

ADVERTISEMENTS.

The Royal Anodyne British TINCTURE, OR, Great Pain-easing Medicine.

THIS Medicine receives its Name from the admirable Faculty which it hath in giving immediate Relief in all manner of Pains; and this it performs by outward using as we I as inward taking. It is the most certain and speedy Cure to be depended upon for the Cholick, and all Oppressions of Wind lodged in any Part of the Body, discharging of it to a wonderful Degree; and as it powerfully opens Obstructions of the whole Body, of it admirably prevents Putrefaction of Humours, and the Seeds of all malignant Diseases; as Diarrhaea, Gripes, Pains of the Stomach and Bowels; the Plurisy, Stiches or Pains of the Side, Back, Loins; or any other Part of the Body: Likewise Arthatick pains; good against the Gout, whether in the Hands of Feet; Rheumatism, and all Rheumatick Ailments, proceeding either from Cold, external Violence, or Sharpness of Humours; it gives Relief when all other Remedies have proved ineffectual: It is excellent against the Stone, Strangury, and Gravel; Ucers in the Reins and Bladder; stirs up the expulsive Faculty, for expelling such tartarous Matter as many times is the Occasion of the forementioned Distempers, not acting by Stupefaction (as Opiates) but by a friendly balsamick and subtile Nature, carrying off the Cause not by Purging, but by Transpiration, by Urine, or breaking Wind; being a choice Chymical Preparation, extracted from the Life of Plants and Minerals, endued with a kind and subtile Nature, penetrating in an Instant into the secret Recesses of the Body, causing all Pains to vanish as Darkness at the sudden Approach of Light.

Prepared and sold by the Author (Dr. HENRY) at the Sign of the Two Dragons, the fourth House on the Righ: Hand in Hatton Garden, next Holbourn; where any Shop Keepers may be furnished, with Allowance to sell again, by his Order: Also sold at Mr. Greg's, Bookseller, next Northumberland-House, Charing Cross; at Mr. Neal's, against the White-Hart Inn in the Borough of Southwark; at Mr. Wilkenson's, at the Mitre in Jewin-street, near Aldersgate-street; at Mr. Dodson's Toyshop, at the Seven Stars against the Pump within Aldgate, at one Shilling a Bottle, sealed with two Dragons and the Author's Name, as above.

Where is also sold, the Original Inestimable Angelical Electuary, a present Cure for Coughs, Colds, Asthmas, Pthisicks, Wheesings, difficult Breathings, and shortness of Breath, all huskey and dry Coughs, and the best Thing in the World for old Consumptions, at one Shilling a Pot Sealed as above.

Dr. Nelson's most wonderful PANACEA, or, the CONFIRM'D VENEREAL DISEASE,

And all the Relicks or Remains of it in the Blood which it infallibly eradicates, tho' of ever so long standing, it having been above thirty Years experienc'd to be the only safe and sure Remedy for that hateful Distemper, that was ever known or discovered.

IT curing so easily, and insensibly, as to any Disorder it gives, Confinement it requires, or Suspicion it occasions, that it is admir'd and recommended by all that have taken it, for it neither purges vomits, nor salivates, but cures by its Alterative, Ceobstruent Antivenereal Qualities, in so much that Children, and the weakest and most tender or crazy constitution'd People may take it at all times of the Year, and go about with it as if they had taken nothing, as may likewise those who have been brought near the Grave, by repeated unsuccessful Salivations, or other violent, or too frequent Purgations, or Vomits; for it restores as well as clears the Blood, Head and whole Habit, of all the lurking poisonous Taint and Mercury tho' never so secretly lodg'd in the Body. Wherefore let none of those unfortunate People despair, but try it, and they will be comfortably convinc'd of the Truth of what is here said of it,

Persons who are pox'd to the last Degree, their whole Mass of Blood being contaminated, and have been told that nothing but a Salivation would Cure them, tho' they Labour under tormenting Pains in the Head, Limbs or Joints; or have breakings out, Scabs Blotches, Boiles, or Spots; or have Swellings, Nodes Sores or Ulcers, either in their Throat, Nose, or elsewhere, with weariness in the Limbs, Faintness and Weakness of the whole Body, &c. may intirely rely upon it, only, that according to the Degree of the Infection, they must take it and continue it for a longer or shorter Time.

Such as have only some Relicks of the Disease, or but suspect that their Blood has got a Smatch of the Taint, by some unusual Uneasinesses about them, which they now and then feel, either from ill manag'd Claps, or other doubtful Cures, should never venture to marry, if they are single, nor meddle with their Wives if marry'd, till they are sure they are safe, as they most certainly will be, upon their only taking a Pot or two of it.

It is also exceeding pleasant to take, as well as delightful in its effects; and cleanses, Nourishes and Restores, the foulest, most weakened and worn out Constitutions.

Price 5 s. the Tin pot, prepar'd only by the Doctor abovesaid, and left by him, at Mr. Isted's Bookseller at the Golden Ball, near St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street; where it may be had, by any Messenger, ready sealed up, with Directions how to take it, by only asking for a 5s. Pot of the Panacea.

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Hon. Sir John Williams , Knt . Lord-Mayor , of the City of London , the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder, and the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the said City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall, in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Monday, the 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and 13th, of September, in the Tenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Six Men, viz. Edward Row , Thomas Hornbrook , John Thomas , Tho. Dwyer , James ONeal , and Edward Bonner , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

When under Sentence, they were instructed in those Duties which are necessarily required of every Christian, who ought to use an hearty, honest endeavour of obeying the whole Will of God; the Knowledge and Practice whereof will bring us to everlasting Happiness, and the Neglect to endless Misery. Some Things there are which God hath so stamped upon our Souls, that we naturally know them, though the Scripture had not informed us. Thus the Heathens, who never heard of old or new Testament, do yet acknowledge themselves bound to some general Duties, as to worship God, to be just, to honour their Parents, and the like; and as St. Paul saith, Their

Consciences do in those Things, accuse or excuse them Rom. 2. 15. That is, acquaint them, whether they have done what they should in those particulars or not. From this I desired them to observe, though Christ had brought a greater Light into the World, yet it was never intended to extinguish that natural Light which God had set up in our Souls. Therefore, we ought not to walk continually to this lesser Light, nor venture on those Sins, which natural Conscience convinceth us to be wicked and unlawful. 2dly, we observed, That it is just matter of Lamentation, that those who profess Religion, should live in the Practice of those Sins, which a meer Heathen would abhor; Men pretending to higher Degrees of Light and Holiness than others, yet Practice contrary to all the Rules of common Honesty, as if Religion gave them a Liberty to sin; for direction in this Affair, it was observed. 3dly, That that Relation or Opinion cannot be of God, which allows Men in any Wickedness. But tho' this natural Light is not to be neglected, yet we are to proceed further, and enquire into the Revelation of Gods Mind and Will, as given to us in the Scriptures of the old and new Testament, by the Holy Prophets of old, and afterwards by Christ and his Apostles.

This we find briefly summed up in the Words of the Apostle. That we should live Soberly, Righteously, and Godly, in this present World. Tit. 2, 12. The Word Soberly, containing our Duty to ourselves; Righteously, our Duty to our Neighbour; and Godly, our Duty to God. We are to acknowledge God to be of infinite Being, from everlasting, without beginning, and to everlasting without ending. That he is our Creator, Redeemer, Sanctifier, Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, onr God, blessed for ever. All this and much more we are to believe, as to his Essence and Being: And also, as He is set forth to us in Scripture by several excellencies, that he is of infinite Goodness and Mercy, Truth, Justice, Wisdom, Power, all-sufficiency Majesty, that he disposes and governs all Things by his Providence; that he knows all Things, and is present in all Places: These divine Attributes we ought undoubtedly to acknowledge, and firmly to believe those infinite Excellencies to be in God, and in the greatest Degree, so that they can never cease to be in him, he cannot possibly be other than infinitely Good, Merciful, True, &c.

I exposed to them the Evil of Theft and Robbery, how odious it is to God, how detestable to Men, how liable to the severest Punishments, both in this Life, and that which is to come, and how mischievous is the Consequence, as often proving the occasion of direct Murder, of which some of them might have been reckoned guilty, because of barbarous usage they gave to them they robbed.

I explained to them the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, and shewed them how ungrateful they had been to God, who, in his Providence, had received them into the Communion of his Church; upon which Account, they were bound to renew their Covenant with God, by partaking in the blessed Sacrament of our Lord's last Supper, &c.

While these and many other Exhortations were given, they all attended in Chappel, and were attentive to Prayers and Exhortations; and tho' most of them were of a different Communion, being Romans, yet they behaved pretty decently: Edward Bonner , and sometimes John Thomas , made regular Responses, and appeared Penitent: Dwyer pretended Illness, and absented too often, having been obstinate and obdur'd.

Upon Thursday, the 23d of September, Report was made to the Queen's most Excellent Majesty in Council, of the six Malefactors lying under Sentence of Death, in the Cells of Newgate; when Thomas Hornbrook , for stealing a Gelding of a wane Colour, value 3 l. the Goods of Thomas Merry , August 10th, and John Thomas , for stealing three silver Watches and a Chain, value 9 l. upon July 14, July 21, and July 26, received her Majesty's most gracious Reprieve: The remaining four, viz. Edward Row , Thomas Dwyer , James O Neal , and Edward Bonner , were appointed for Execution.

Edward Bonner , was indicted (with William Wager , otherwise Cocky Wager, not yet taken) for assaulting Samuel Hasswel on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a silver Watch, value 3 l. a gold Ring, value 10 s. and two Shillings in Money, July 23.

1. Edward Bonner , 39 Years of Age, of honest Parents about London , who boarded him at Windsor , when he was young, and gave him good Education at School there, and instructed him in the Christian Religion; but his juvenile Instructions he made very bad use of, when advanced in Years. When of Age, he was put to a Butcher in Newgate-Market , whom he serv'd seven Years honestly, and with Approbation. When out of his Time, he set up in the Market, and married a Wife, whom he treated barbarously, daily beating and abusing her in a cruel Manner. He has a Son of 18 taken Care of in the Country, a Girl of twelve, and another Boy of Five Years of Age; his Wife being a Woman of a mild Temper, lived a most miserable Life with him, having her Body mortified, and full of black and blue Marks, by Reason of the unmerciful Blows he was constantly giving her; she died on Thursday Morning, the 10th of September, the Day he was capitally convicted of the Crime for which he died. When his two youngest Children came to visit him, he was in very great Confusion and Disorder, and lamented and wept, as he used

very often to do. He went very often to Horse-Races, and on these Occasions sought Opportunity to rob those he happen'd to meet with. He had committed many Highway Robberies; but alledged it was five Years ago, since which Time he minded his Business of the Market, and after the Business of the Market was over, he used often to ride out for his Diversion, which look'd very suspicious. He never practised pilfering, stealing, Shop-listing, Street-robbing, nor any of those little Ways used by petty Thieves. As for the Robbery of which he was convicted, and for which he died, he was not willing to confess that he attacked Mr. Hasswell in the Coach, but own'd that he knew every Thing about the Robbery, having been an intimate Acquaintance of Cocky Wager, and another Man, who own'd to several that he assisted in that Robbery, and his now gone off: He saw the Watch and Ring which had been taken from Mr. Hasswell; and at the Time he was taken at the Black-Spread-Eagle in Pater-Noster-Row , he was contriveing with Cocky's Sister to sell the Goods, and get him off, fearing his bad Character and Intimacy with him would cause himself to be taken up too. He commonly came Home late at Night, and never fail'd, being mostly in drink, to let his Wrath fall upon the poor, unfortunate Wife. He kept the worst of Company, and was too much addicted to those Vices which are the Bane of such unlucky Wretches.

On Friday the 24th Instant, I was, by two or three Persons, desired to ask Edward Bonner , if he knew of a Robbery committed on one Mr. Tong, a School-master, from whom they took six or seven Guineas, about Ten at Night, upon a Wednesday, about eight or nine Weeks ago, near Cheshunt-Wash in Hertfordshire? This was to clear two Men at Stansted in the Country, who were taken up upon Suspicion, having had before the Reputation of honest Men. Bonner said, he heard of that Robbery, but was not willing to discover the Actors, pretending he did not know, or was not sure who they were who did it. It seems probable, that he knew of that Affair, and that the Countrymen were not concerned in it.

Under his Misfortunes he behaved well, and was apparently penitent, very much lamenting over the Sins of his Life. He declared his Faith in the Mercy of God through Christ; that he sincerely repented of all his Sins; and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Edward Row and William Hampton , were indicted (with Alexander Ratcliff , not taken) for breaking and entering the House of Thomas Gibson , at Islington , about the Hour of Two in the Night, and stealing a silver Watch, value 4 l. a silver Spoon, value 30 s. a silver Cup, value 3 l. a Pair of silk Stockings, value 10 s. a silver Spoon, value 10 s. the Goods of Thomas Gibson , March 26, 1735.

2. Edward Row , 35 Years of Age, born about ten Miles from Dublin , of honest Parents, who educated him at School to read, write and cast Accompts, to fit him for Business, and Instructed him in the Romish Religion . When of Age, he was put Apprentice to one Mr. Johnson, a Glover , in Channel Row , Dublin , and served his Time, but was disobedient and refactory to his Master. And keeping the vilest Company of both Men and Women, drinking, gaming, swearing, blaspheming, &c. and committing a great many vile Things, as never fail to bring these miserable Creatures to certain ruin and destruction.

He sometimes followed his Trade as a Glover, but being acquainted with Gangs of Thieves and Robbers, when Opportunity offered, he employed his Time in thieving and robbing; and having thus lived for some Years at Dublin , afraid of Punishment there, he came over to England , thinking that he might for some time sculk about the City of London with impunity, though in the mean Time he followed his wicked Courses. He had a Wife and three poor Children, whom he left in Ireland, exposed to all the Calamities of a wretched Life. He lived about Drury-lane , and was employed in his own way as a Glover , but either inclined to idleness, or enslaved to wicked Company, he engaged in villainous designs, particularly, with these vile Rogues, to rob Mr. Gibson, a Baker, at Islington ; five or six of them being a Drinking at a Publick House in Drury-Lane , they were talking of going to Ireland, if they had Cloaths and Money, when Patrick Hall who had been a Servant to Mr. Gibson about three Weeks, told them he could put them in a way to get both, if they would agree, and be secret, which they all promised; he then told them, that Mr. Gibson received a Graziers Money in Smithfield , every Monday, and that was the properest Time to rob him, to which they all consented, if they could be sure it was there.

Hall telling them he was sure there was about four or five hundred Pounds; in a short Time after this Proposal, they met again, two or three of them having taken a View of the Place, and finding it would answer their Purpose, they on the 26th of March, about 2 in the Morning, came to the Garden Door behind the House, and he went over the Wall, and opened the Door to the rest, who all came in, (three with black Crape over their Faces, and armed with two old Pistols and an old Sword) and went into the Woodhouse to wait till the Man came to fetch the Scovel to sweep the Oven which was in a few Minutes after, when Brian Bird , Mr. Gibson's Man, who happened to go out at the back Door for a Scovel; they presented Pistols to his Breast, and Row stood with a Sword to guard him while the

rest went to his Master. Mr. Gibson, endeavouring to defend himself with a Pole, they shot two Pistols at him, and wounded him in the Beast, Arm and Face, and then they beat him backwards, and laid him on the Ground in the Bake house, and brought his Man blind-folded, and sat him down by him. Two of the Rogues stod over them, while the others rifled the House of the Goods mention'd in the Indictment. These Robbers being all Irishmen, they fled to Ireland ; Ward, intending to go thither, was taken at Bridgewater, in Somersetshire, confess'd his Crime, and inform'd against the rest, and was executed at Tyburn for this said Robbery, on Monday the 24th of May last. One John White , a Soldier , who knew some of them, having bought of them a Pair of Stockings, and some small Things belonging to Mr. Gibson, was sent in quest of them, he took up Ward at Bridgewater ; from thence he was sent over to Dublin , by the Justices of Bridgewater, with a Copy of Ward's Confession. Upon the Lord Mayor of Dublin's Warrant, White took up Row, who at first deny'd, but seeing Ward's Confession, he offer'd to commence Evidence, and make a fuller Discovery; only in Alleviation of his Crime, he alledged that Mr. Gibson might recollect, that he was more merciful to him, than any of the rest.

And this last Part of the Evidence, Bird, Mr. Gibson's Man, confirm'd, telling that Row hindered Ward from killing him, as he intended, and in that respect he was more merciful; but this his Master could not give Account of, having been wounded, and in Pain. He was transported from Dublin to Newhaven , where he was kept in Jail one Week; from thence he was carried to the City of Carlisle , where he was kept three Weeks; and thence he was brought, by Habeas Corpus, to Newgate , London , where he met with his deserved Fate He own'd the Robbery of Mr. Gibson, as sworn against him, and that he was a most perverse wicked Fellow from his Youth. He was obstinate, and being of the Romish Way , not willing to listen much Ear to the Prayers of our Church, or to Exhortations. He behaved quietly in Chappel. He decalred his Faith in Christ; that he was penitent; and in Peace with all Men.

Thomas Dwyer and James O Neal , were indicted for assaulting James Maintrew on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a silver Watch, value 40 s. a Tortoiseshel Snuff-box, value 20 s. a Pair of silver Shoe-Buckles, value 6 s. a Pair of Knee-Buckles, value 5 s. a Pair of silver Spurs, value 25 s. a silver Stock-Buckle, value 5 s: a Cambrick Stock, value 1 s. a Holland Shirt, a Hat, a Peruke, a Cloth Coat, a Waistcoat, a Whip, and other Things, and 2 s. in Money, July 1st.

They were a second Time indicted for assaulting Daniel Hawkins , in an open Place near the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him 32 silver Buttons, seven Guineas, seven Shillings in Money, and other Things, August 3.

They were a third Time indicted for stealing a black Gelding, value 12 l. the Goods of Daniel Hawkins , August 2.

Thomas Dwyer , 28 Years of Age, of honest Parents in the County of Tipperary in Ireland , who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing, and Arithmetick, to fit him for Business, and had him instructed in Religion in their way. When of Age, he was not put to a Trade, but did Husbandry-work about the Country. Eight or nine Years ago, the Officers of the Irish Regiments in France, who are always a recruiting in Ireland, as they often do in Britain, though in both Kingdoms in an underhand-way, seeing young Dwyer, who was of a roving, unsettled Disposition, fit for their Purpose, and he ready to comply with their Proposals, though his Father could have provided for him pretty well at Home; yet by their Promises of Preferment, which possibly they never thought of after, they persuaded him to take on, and go along with them to France , where he serv'd in that Regiment, now General Buckley's, eight Years. He was in the French Army commanded by the late Duke of Berwick, on the Rhine, at the Siege of Fort Keil and Philipsburg He continued in the Service some Time longer, but always grudging that they never prefer'd him, and that there was no probability of doing it, notwithstanding all the Promises he got when they engag'd him; he at last deserted, and went to Ireland to his Father, who kept him, and would have got him provided for, had he been patient, and taken right Methods. But he having a young Wife, and not any Business, came to England without the Knowledge of his Friends; and being at London , met with his Countryman, James O Neal , and agreed to go out on the Higway with him; and on the 31st of July, they met with Mr. Maintrew, in the Evening, not far from Kensington , whom they robb'd of all the Things mention'd in the first Indictment, and gag'd and stript him naked, and tied his Hands behind him, his left Leg up to his Hands, and his right Leg lash'd to the other; then they drew him out of the Ditch into a Furrow, where he lay till Twelve at Night, when a Man coming by released him. Three Days after this, about Nine at Night, near Stonebridge , they robb'd Mr. Hawkins of the Things mention'd in the second Indictment; him they also treated barbarously, laying him down under a Hedge in the Field, cutting and tearing his Coat and Waistcoat for the silver Buttons; and Dwyer

struck him with a Stick, and rode away upon his Horse, which he found again, and then O Neal ty'd his Hands behind his Bk with a Handkerchief. One Green, with whom they lodged, in Jams-Street, near Grosvenor-Square , hearing them fight and quarrel about some Money, and finding a loaded Pstol in their Bed, design'd to take them up upon Suspicion of their being Highwaymen, but was prevented; for Dwyer coming to a Pawn broker's to relieve a Coat, he was taken upon the same Account, and before the Justice confess'd he was one of them who robb'd Mr. Hawkins, and desir'd to be made an Evidence against O Neal; and much about the same Time O Neal being taken at Turnham-Green , offer'd to give Evidence against Dwyer. I represented to them the Heinousness of these Robberies, being attended with such barbarous Usage, that they imply'd Murder; and therefore they ought to repent as Murderers; for if Providence had not favour'd Mr. Maintrew, he must have inevitably perish'd. The robbing Mr. Hawktus (as sworn against them) both of them frankly own'd, only that they had no Design of stealing the Horse; but the Treatment of Mr. Maintrew was so odious and barbarous, that they were not willing to confess the same. Dwyer was miserably poor and naked, and complain'd for want of a Coat, kept by some Body, when he was taken, having nothing to defend himself from the Cold in the Cell, though he was afflicted with a Fever and Ague. He was often absent from Chappel, upon Pretence of Indisposition, or of his Profession. He behaved quietly and humbly. He own'd himself to have been a very great Sinner, and that he suffered justly. He hop'd for Salvation through Christ; repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

4. James O Neal , 28 Years of Age, born in Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School for Business, and Instructed him in Christian Principles; when of Age, they put him to a Trade, but he being of a light Disposition, left that Confinement, and learned to be a Fisherman , which Business he followed for some Years at Home, married a Wife, who is now in Ireland, and hath three Children. He was five years in Newfoundland , where he apply'd himself to fishing, and got a handsome Livelyhood, bu longing to see his native Country and Family again, he returned to Ireland , and stayed sometime at home, where business not answering to his Mind, and he not content, but inclining to ramble somewhat further through the World, came to London , in May last, on pretence of seeking a Ship for Newfoundland, but the Shipping being gone, and he left destitute at London , without either Money or Business, by chance met with Dwyer, his fellow Sufferer, who being a Man of the like desperate Fortune, persuaded him to go on the

Highway and rob; this Advice he willingly embraced, and they accordingly went out on the Road, toward Brentford , and robb'd Mr. Hawkins, as in the second Indictment, but the other robbery upon Mr. Maintrew, attended with the height of cruelty and barbarity which he denied. I expossed to him what a savage Temper it discovered in them, to commit a Crime so very vile and outragious; but these Creatures are so accustomed to lying upon all Occasions, that one can believe nothing they say. He declared in the preceeding Part of his Life, he had not done any notorious robberies, but stole and pilferred Things of small Value: He entertained the basest Company both of Men and Women, and was inclined to all these Vices, incident to such wicked Creatures, which brought him to his fatal Catastrophe. He was very attentive to exhortations, and blest me several Times when he went out of the Chappel, but seemed a little discontented.

These three last Malefactors especially Dwyer, were more bigotted in their way of Religion, than many others use to be in the like Circumstances. O Neal believed in Christ, repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Morning of their Execution I read Prayers to them, where Bonner in particular appeared very serious and devout; after I had done praying by them, they came down into the Press-Yard, and had their Irons knock'd off, which being done, Dwyer and O Neal were put into one Cart, and Bonner and Rowe into the other, between nine and ten o'Clock in the Morning. When they came to the Place of Execution, being tyed up, I attended them in the Cart, and prayed by them, but none but Bonner made any Responses, tho' seemingly Penitent (the other three being of the Communion of the Church of Rome ) after I had done Praying by them, I asked whether they had any Thing more to add to their former Confessions, when Bonner would not plainly own the Fact, but reflected on the Evidence of the Coach-man and another, as if they had been mistaken. Dwyer, and O Neal acknowledged they were guilty of the Robbery on Mr. Hawkins. After I had left them, and the Cart was drawing away, Bonner desired he might read a Prayer by himself, which being granted he did aloud and distinctly, and having done resigned himself in a composed Manner.

They all went off the Stage crying to God to have Mercy upon them, and that our Lord Jesus Christ, would receive their Spirits.

This is all the Account given, by Me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary and Chaplain of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

EDWARD Bonner , about 40 Years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Sepulchres , London , of honest Parents, who gave him a good Education, and when of Age, put him out Apprentice to one Mr. Walter Ragdale , a Butcher, in Clare Market , with whom he lived five Years, but Mr. Ragdale dying, he was turned over to Mr. Samuel Tomlinson , a Butcher in Newgate Market , with whom he served the Remainder of his Time faithfully, and then Traded for himself in that Market with Reputation for some Years. But as he said about 9 Years ago, his Trade falling off, and being in Debt, his Creditors pressing him for their Money, and not having any to satisfy them, he came to the Resolution of going on the Highway, to pay them by that illegal Method. He said that after he had taken this Resolution, he made it his Business to introduce himself into Persons Company who kept Markets and Fairs, under pretence of Dealing with them, and so got acquainted with their times of Receiving large Sums of Money, which he was always very unfortunate in never meeting with any large Booty. He said that having received Information that a Grazier had received upwards of one hundred Pounds in Oxfordshire; he met with him about 50 Miles from London, and demanded his Money, and after a strict search, found no more than 6 l. 10 s. which he took from him, but having told the Person he expected a much larger Sum, he replyed he had been disappointed in receiving of about 80 l. more.

Some little Time after this robbery, he committed two more on Hounslow-Heath , one of which was an old Gentleman and a Lady in a Chariot (having a Footman riding on Horse back) from whom he took about 36 Shillings, and riding off with this booty, the Footman followed him, on which he turned about, and the Footman fired a Pistol at him which wounded him in the Hand, but on his firing at the Footman again, he thought proper to give over the Pursuit, though he said he believed he had not hurt him, and from thence he came to London .

Besides the before-mentioned robberies, he said, he had committed several others on the Roads of Highgate , and Epping Forrest , but could not remember their Particulars, it being

upwards of five Years past. He said, that about May, or June, in the Year 1731, he became acquainted with one Thomas Clarkson , a Carpenter , who lived at Hampstead in Middlesex , who being in indifferent Circumstances as well as himself, agreed to go on the Highway with him, and equipt himself for that purpose, and in a Day or two set out together, taking the Oxford Road , where between Hays and Uxbridge , they met with one Mr. Phillips, of Thame, in Oxfordshire, about two o'Clock in the Afternoon, whom they stopt and robb'd of upwards of three Pounds, and rode off; but before they could get clear away, a Hue and Cry was presently raised, and they so closely pursued, that they were obliged to quit their Horses, and take to a Wood, having rid near 12 Miles a-cross the Country. When they came into the Wood, he threw away his Great-coat, tho' (he said) a very good one, and perswaded his Companion to do so to, that they might the better facilitate their Escape; but after having wandered about the Wood 'till they were tired, and hearing their Pursuers still after them, they laid themselves down in the most secret Part they could find, Clarkson lying upon him. They had not been long in this Posture, before they heard some Persons near them, upon which he said to his Companion, if they should come up to us fire at the first, he had but just said these Words, when a Person appeared with a Gun on his Shoulder, and asked him what he did there, and where was his Companion who had robbed the Gentleman; who answered he had none, and at the same Time presented his Pistol at him, which missing fire, he took the opportunity of slipping from under him, and crept through the Bushes on all Fours, and had not got so far, but could hear that his Companion was taken, (several other Persons coming into the Wood after the Person who first discovered his Companion to his Assistance) he said, he lay secreted for some Time after this, among some Brambles, where he could hear one of the Pursuers say, I will set my Dog on the Scent, and if he is here, I am sure he will find him, which being accordingly done, he said the Dog came to him, and after having smelt to him, he gave him some Bread that he had in his Pocket and the Dog left him; he had not laid a great while, before some People came by the Place, with Pitch-forks and long Staffs, beaing and stiking them into the Bushes, one whom stuck him in the Thigh, which put him to great torture: However, they did not perceive him, he said, he lay in that Condition for a long time, when hearing nothing stir, he ventured to get cut of the Wood, and with grea difficulty got to a House on a Common, near Harrow the Hill , where seeing only a Woman and a Boy, he went in, and asked her for some small Beer, and telling

her he had been arrested by Bailiffs, and made his Escape from them, she readily gave him some, and asked him to eat some Victuals, which he refused, thanking her, and telling her Time would not permit him to stay; from thence he proceeded for London , all the By-ways he could; sometimes over Hedge and Ditch, till he arrived there, which was about 11 o'Clock that Night, where near Ludgate he met an Acquaintance of his, living in Newgate-Market who asking him where he had been; he imprudently told him, and what he had been doing, and how narrowly he had escaped. He said, fearing through his own Imprudence, and fearing Clarkson might make a Discovery, he went over to Rotterdam , for fear of Prosecution; but finding to the contrary, and that Clarkson was executed without naming him, and having no Employment there, and the Affair being adjusted, he came over to England agin, where he continued to follow the Business of a Butcher , 'till near the Time of his unhappy Death.

On Sunday, about 5 o'Clock in the Evening (the Day before h died) two of his Children, a Boy about 6 Years old, and a Girl of about 12, came in to his Cell (at his Request) that he might take his last Farewel of them, which he did in a most moving Manner, having recommended them to fear Almighty God, and be obedient and dutiful to their Benefactors; telling them that they would never see him more in this World, and that to Morrow (meaning the Day of his Execution) they would be both Fatherless and Motherless; and after having blessed them both with many tender Kisses, with Floods of Tears, parted with them, praying to God to be their Protector.

James O Neal , 26 Years of Age, born in the County of Tipperary , in the Kingdom of Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him a tolerable Education; and when of Age, put him Apprentice to a Tanner and Currier , with whom he served out his Time faithfully: But not caring to follow his Business, he entered into the Fishery Trade at Newfound-Land , where he continued near 5 Years, and then returned to Ireland , which was some Time in the last Winter, where he continued 'till the last Spring, and then intended to go another Voyage to Newfound-Land; but lost his Passage, and came over hither, where being a Stranger, he took a Lodging at the next Door to the Coach and Horses Alehouse in Church-Lane , in the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields , where he became acquainted with Dwyer, his Countryman, who complaining of the Necessities he laboured under, they agreed to go on the Highway together, to get Money to support themselves. He said that the Robberies, for which he and Dwyer were tried convicted, were the first he ever had

committed, either by himself, or with any other Person.

Thomas Dwyer , 28 Years of Age, born in the County of Tipperary , in the Kingdom of Ireland , of honest reputable Parents, whom he said held a Farm in that County; and after having given him a tolerable Education, when he became capable, would have had him followed that Employ; but being of a roving Disposition, he would not adhere to their good Advice, but followed his own vicious Inclinations, and left them, having inlisted himself a Soldier in the French Service, in which he continued at Paris near 8 Years; but being discharged, came over hither the latter End of May last, in order to go Home to his Parents; but meeting with O Neal at his Lodgings, next Door to the Coach and Horses in Church-Lane aforesaid, they went out together for a few Days a Hay making; but hard Work not suiting their Tempers, they agreed to rob on the Highway. He said, that the Robberies, for which he and his Companion were tried and convicted, were the first he had ever committed.

Edward Rowe , about 25 Years of Age, born near Dublin , in Ireland , of honest Parents, who gave him a tolerable Education, and put him out Apprentice to a Glover , in Channel-Row in Dublin , with whom he served out his Time with great Reluctancy, and for some short Time followed the same Business for himself; but being of a savage Temper, and tired of getting Money honestly, he associated himself with a Gang of the most notorious Rogues in Ireland, and with them committed several Robberies. He said that once a Year the Lord Mayor of Dublin, and the Sheriffs, go to a Place called Chappel Izard, three Miles from Dublin, his Companions called on him that Day, and told him they might get a good Booty, if he would go with them, to which he consented; but they were frustrated in their Design, there being several Lights on each Side the Coaches, which were two in Number, and several Horsemen riding by them. He said, that he and his Companions had committed so many Robberies in Ireland , that he thought himself not safe there, and for that Reason came over to England , where he found out Hall, with whom he consented, with Ward and others, to rob Mr. Gibson; that after that Robbery, he with Hall and others went over to Ireland again, fearing to be taken for that Fact, which afterwards happen'd (though he thought himself safe) in the following Manner: He said, on a Saturday in February last, as he was walking in Dub

blin, two of the Sheriffs Officers laid hold of him, and told him they had a Writ against him for Debt; but instead thereof, carried him before the Lord Mayor, where White the Evidence was present, who deposed that he was one of the Persons who was concerned in robbing Mr. Gibson, on which he was committed to the Marshalsea , and the next Day was conveyed under a strong Guard to Newgate , where he lay till Whitsuntide last, when by Virtue of the Right Hon. the Lord Hardwicke, the Chief Justice of England's Warrant, he was brought over to Whitehaven , where he was confined for a Week, and from thence conveyed to Carlisle Goal , where he lay near 5 Weeks, and from thence brought by Habeas Corpus to Newgate .

The following Letter ROWE sent to a young Woman, the Night before his Execution.

MY DEAR POLLY.

THIS being the last Time of my Writing, and the only Thing that lays in my Power to leave you as a Legacy to remember an unhappy Man, and one who is ever bound to Pray for you, and who on the other Hand Lov'd you as himself, and who, had he been at Liberty once more, nothing on this Side the Grave (with God's Leave) should have parted us: I am inform'd that in loving of my Life, exceedingly endanger'd yours, which I am very much grieved and troubled to hear, and beg for God's sake that you will raise yourself up again with the Assistance of God; and that he may give you your Health again, and let not my unhappy Fate any way concern you as to endanger your Life, or impair your Health, for we are all mortal, and subject to great Frailties in this Life, without ceasing, and I am only going to resign my dear Soul to him that gave it me. I shall go but a little before; for the Life of Man, tho' he lives to the Age of Fourscore, without it is spent in the Service of God, is but like a Puff of Wind, or as the green Grass, or Flowers of the Field, that in the midst of its Glory fadeth away, and is no more, just so is the Life of Man: My Dear, if it should please God to prolong your Days, be thankful to God, otherways if it is to be

hoped we shall meet in Heaven, when God shall see fit. Remember me when you do not see me, and keep this Letter, if it be possible, while Life shall last. God bless and preserve you and yours, and send, if you do live, that he may prosper all your Undertakings, that is for a good Account. Christ have Mercy upon you, and cause his Grace to continue with you both now and evermore. I believe I shall find Mercy in the World to come, so let that be a Satisfaction to you, that tho' the Laws of this Nation can punish my mortal Carcass, they can in no wise afflict my immortal Soul; and as for my Ignominy of my Death, I shall never hear any Thing of it, neither does God respect our End we make in this Word in any wise; for the Clergy informs me, it is better to suffer for ones Faults in this World, that by this Suffering may, in some Measure, expiate for the Crime committed. I can say no more to you, but my dear Soul accept of the Willingness of my everlasting Love, which I shall carry with me to my Death; and afterwards, if possible, take Care of yourself, and pray for me, I remain your dying, and most obligated Friend and Lover, both now, and evermore. Amen.

E. ROWE

P. S. My Service to your Mother unknown, and to your Sister Jenny, and all Friends, God bless the Family and you once more. Farewel.

The following Prayer Bonner frequently read in his Cell, while he lay under Sentence of Death.

A Prayer and Meditation for a Dying Man, who strengthens himself against the frightful Aspect of the Grave, by looking upon our Lord Jesus Christ laid in his Tomb.

" O Wonderful Mediator, between God " and Man, thou art God Immortal " and yet hast vouchafed to take upon thee our " mortal Nature, and to Dye for me a " miserable Sinner, and to remain for a " Time in the state of the Dead, that thou " mights't procure to me a blessed Immortallity, give me Grace to mediate as I " ought upon thy sacred Body, wrapped " up in a Winding-Sheet, and laid in " the Earth, for by this means O sweet " Jesus, I shall be reconciled to the Sight " of the Grave; I shall look with a stedfast " and settled Countenance on the Pit into " which I shall enter, now thou hast appointed it, for the Servant is not greater " than the Master, it belongs not to the " Creature to prefer itself above the Creator, " since I expect to share in thy Glory, and " Exaltation, it is but just and reasonable " that I take some part in thy Disgraces and " Abasement, my Reason assisted by thine " Holy Spirit teacheth me that I must be " Content to be Wrapped up in thy Darkness, and remain with the in the Valley " of the Shadow of Death, since I hope to " be Clothed one Day with Light and

" Crowned with eternal Life. I must not " only look upon the Grave without Fear, " but shall consider it with Joy, in Regard " thou hast Honoured it with thy Holy " Presence, and Perfumed it with thy Divine and Celestial Odour; I shall look upon it as if thou didst yet lye down in it, " as if I were to keep thee Company there. " My Lord and my God, a dead Man returned to Life again when he did but touch " the Bones of thy Prophet; but I don't " only touch the Prince of Prophets, but " Embrace thee by Faith, as thou art for " my Sins, and as resting in thy Grave for " my Salvation. Thou shalt therefore make " me sensible of thy Divine Virtue, put in " me the Seed of Immortality, and raise my " Hopes up to Heaven; my Soul hath already " a Share in the first Resurrection, and one " Day this infirm Body shall return in Newness of my Life; if my Resurection be not " so quick and Speedy as that of the Dead " raised to Life by the Prophet, it shall be " far more Glorious and lasting, that I " may bless thee with all thy Saints, and " Praise thee for Ever with thine Inheritance " in Heaven, Amen.

FINIS.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is Published, Price 5 s.

EVERY Man his own Lawyer: Or, a Summary of the Laws of England, in a New and Instructive Method, under the following Heads, viz.

1. Of Actions and Remedies, Writs, Process, Arrests and Bail.

II. Of Courts, Attornies and Solicitors therein, Juries, Witnesses, Trials, Executions, &c.

III. Of Estates and Property in Lands and Goods, and how acquired, Ancestors, Heirs, Executors and Administrators.

IV. Of the Laws relating to Marriage, Bastardy, Infants, Ideots, Lunaticks.

V. Of the Liberty of the Subject, Magna Charta, the Habeas Corpus Act, and other Statutes.

VI. Of the King and his Prerogative, the Queen, Peers, Judges, Sheriffs, Coroners, Justices of the Peace, Constables, &c.

VII. Of Publick Offences, Treason, Murder, Felony, Burglary, Robbery, Rape, Sodomy, Forgery, Perjury, &c. And their Punishment.

All of them so plainly treated of, that all Manner of Persons may be particularly acquainted with our L A W S and STATUTES, concerning Civil and Criminal Affairs; and know how to defend themselves, and their Estates and Fortunes; in all Cases whatsoever.

Printed for J. Hazard, against Stationers-Hall, near Ludgate.

Where may be had,

1. The Law, of Tithes, the second Edition, pr. 5 s.

2. A Tithing Table, shewing by way of Analysis, of what Things Tythes are, or are not due, either by Common-Law, Custom, or prescription, price 1 s.

Both the above by William Bohun , of the Middle-Temple , Esq ;

This Day is publish'd, In Two Volumes in Octavo, Price fourteen Shillings.

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Time; chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. These Trials, &c. are not to be met with in any other Collection.

These two Volumes contain the Trials of Hawkins and Sympson for robbing the Bristol Mail, with an Account of all their Robberies; of Spiggot the famous Highwayman that bore 350 lb. Weight on his Breast; of Butler, Barton, Fox, Hawes, Wright, Colthouse, Drury, Warwick, Yates, Armstrong, Beck, Edwards, and many others, all famous Highwaymen, and Street-Robbers; of Arthur Grey the famous Footman for Burglary, with an Intent to ravish Mrs Murray; of Dr. Krauft, Pritchard, Simmonds, Cook, Ellis, and many others for Rapes, all very entertaining; of Capt. Stanley, for the Murder of his Whore; of Brinsdon, Crony, Nichols, Mac-Gennis, Lutterell, the famous Nanny Butler, Vaughan and Cholmly (two Constables) Forster Snow , and many others for Murder; also Major Oneby, for the Murder of Mr. Gower, with his Life; of Vezey and Hallam, for the Murder of their Wives; of Ricard Savage , Esq ; for Murder, with his Life; Capt Jane for Murder, Edward Strafford , Esq ; and many others; of Sally Salisbury , for an Attempt to stab the Hon. J – F -, Esq; of Sir Charles Burton , Bart , for Felony; of Duffus, Gabriel Lawrence , and a great many others for Sodomy, shewing all the Tricks and Methods used by the Mollies; of Squire Day alias Davenport for a Cheat, and several others for Bilking their Lodgings; of two German Counts for forging a Bank Note; of Johnathan Wild for several Felonies, with several Particulars of his Life, never before published; of Mrs. Gregory, for marrying Squire Cockerl, uder pretence of being a great Fortune; of the infamous Catherine Hays , who murder'd her Husband, and lay with another Man the same Night; of Mrs. Sherman, for giving Poison to Mr. Chevet; of Vevers the Bricklayer, on all his Indictments; of Mary Hendron , for marrying Miss Morris to an Irishman against her Consent; of blind Cowper and Harpham, and others for Coining; of Russel for a Misdemeanour, for endeavouring to carry away Mrs. Benson; of William Hales , Esq ; and Parson Kinnersley for Forgery; of Atkinson for the Murder of his Mother at Charing-Cross; with a great Number of diverting Tryals of Whores for robbing those that pick'd them up; and several other remarkable ones, for the Highway, Rapes, Murder, Burglaries, &c.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trials; among which are upwards of seventy Tryals for Murder, near Sixty of Whores for privately stealing, uwards of one Hundred for the Highway, about Thirty for Rapes; the rest being for Frauds Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy Bigamy, Shop-lifting, Riots Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single Felonies &c. &c. &c.

Sold by J. Roberts, in Warwick-Lane, and by all the Booksellers and Phamphlet-Shops in Town.

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictments, and other Persons concern'd in Prostions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers; and every Number contains more in Quantity, and is cheaper than any thing ever publish'd this Way.

These Trials, which make 26 Numbers, were Published once a Fortnight; and such Persons as want any Numbers to compleat their Setts, are desired to send for them very speedily, or it will be impossible ever to complete them.

