The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday, January 28. 1707/1708.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Thursday, Friday and Monday, the 15th, 16th, and 19th, instant, Four Persons being found Guilty of Death, had Sentence pass'd upon them accordingly, and another who should have been executed the last Sessions, but had his Execution then suspended, was now order'd to prepare himself for it. This Person and One of the Four before mention'd being in the Death-Warrant, are the melancholly Subject of this Paper. May their Death be a Warning to those that have receiv'd the QUEEN's Mercy, and to all others, that so they may not stand in need of it, nor bring themselves by their Crimes into Judgment here or hereafter.

On the Lord's Day, the 18th instant, I preached to the Condemned and other Persons, then in the Chappel of Newgate, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Exod. 20. 13. Thou shalt not Kill. From which words I shewed;

I. The heinous Nature of the Sin here forbidden.

II. The severe Punishment, due to it.

III. and lastly, How much it concern'd a Man that is guilty of such an Offence (which is irreparable, and indeed the greatest that can be offered to Humane Nature) to grieve bitterly for it, and heartily repent of it.

I enlarg'd upon these, and then proceeded to the Application, which, it seems, gravell'd so much a Person nearly concern'd therein, that he was unwilling (though his Duty and Interest should have oblig'd him) to come to the Chappel again that Afternoon.

On the last Lord's Day I preach'd again to them both in the Morning and Afternoon, and took my Text out of Luke 15. 18, 19. The Words being these, Father, I have sinned against Heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy to be called thy Son.

Which having first explain'd in general; I then proceeded to shew from the Example of the Home-returning Prodigal in the Text;

I. That a true Penitent does not hide, nor continue in his Sins; but ingenuously confesses, abhors and forsakes them.

II. That he is so far from extenuating or palliating them, that he aggravates them more than his greatest Adversaries can do.

III. That he passes a most severe Judgment upon himself, and acknowledges that he deserves a greater Punishment than that he is to undergo in this World for them: And therefore does not repine nor murmure at, but submissively acquiesce in God's Providence and the Methods he takes of punishing him.

IV. and lastly, That this Course and Manner of Repentance is, First, most Acceptable to God, and Secondly, most Beneficial to such a Penitent.

Having largely discours'd upon these Particulars, I concluded at both times with a pressing Exhortation to the Condemned Persons, That they would examine themselves with relation to their past Lives, the present State they were in, and the Thoughts they had of another World: And then pray earnestly to God to give them such Faith and Repentance, as might intitle them to an Interest in Christ, and prove available to their Eternal Salvation.

While they were under Condemnation, I constantly visited them, and had them brought up twice every Day to the Chappel; where I pray'd with them, and expounded the Word of God to them; drawing such Inferences, and giving them such Admonitions, to the best of my Ability, as were proper for them in the dismal Circumstances they then lay under. They were all of them very attentive, both those that were reprieved, and those that were to die: Which latter, in my private Examinations of them, gave me an Account of themselves, as follows.

I. Alexander Carroll , condemn'd for the Murther of Thomas Fenwick . He said, he was about Twenty-seven Years of age, born of good Parents at Carlough , in Queens-County in Ireland . He confess'd, that he had been a very loose Liver, and very much neglected Christian Duties. He owned he was the Person that killed the aforesaid Thomas Fenwick ; but he at first endeavour'd to perswade me and others, that he was provoked to it, by his being assaulted by the deceased; and therefore thought much to be under Condemnation for wilful Murther. He spent much of his time, while under that Condemnation, in writing Letters, Petitions, &c. in order to get a Reprieve. and all that could be said and alledged to him, was not forcible enough to take him off from those worldly Concerns, and put him upon thoughts of another Life, and due Preparation for it. But when he found himself in the Death-Warrant, than began he to be sensible of his Folly in having thus mispent his time. He acknowledg'd, he was highly Guilty, both of the Fact for which he was Condemned, and of his Neglect to prepare for Death in good earnest before this Extremity; and he owned the Justice not only of that Sentence by which he was to die here, but of God whom he had grievously offended many and many ways, by doing those things which he should not have done, and omitting to do those things which he should have done. He said, he heartily repented of all his Sins, and begged Pardon of God and Man, and dyed in Charity with all the World. He did at first pretend to be a Protestant, and born of Protestant Parents; but at last he confess'd that he was a Papist, and all his Ancestors were of that perswasion, and therefore he was resolved to die in it. However he said, he rely'd ouly upon Christ's Merits for the Pardon of his Sins and the Salvation of his Soul; and that he did not depend upon the Prayers that might be made for him after his Death, but thought it most Safe for his eternal Welfare to do what he could to repent and be reconcil'd to God, before he left this World. This he express'd to be his Sense. As for other Principles he might have, he did not discover them; neither did he seem to me to be much versed in any Religion; but on the contrary, to have been very ignorant and very defective in the Exercise and Practice of Christian Duties: Which he himself acknowledg'd and express'd great sorrow for. He gave me at the Tree a Paper of his own Writing, of which the Reader may see the Copy at the end of this Account.

II. John Read , Condemn'd in December last for the stealing of a Horse. He said, he was about 30 years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Giles's in the Fields , and brought up among the Quakers; That by his Trade he was a Silk-Weaver , and would work sometimes at it; but had not so much follow'd it, as he had ill Courses for about these ten years last past: That he had within that time done many ill Facts, besides that for which he was now Condemn'd to dye; And that he first began his wicked Trade with picking of Pockets, and keeping of bad Company, which forwarded his corrupt inclination to the doing of that for which he was now both sorry and asham'd; and of which (as also of other Matters that were necessary for him to discover) he gave a particular Account. He confess'd, That about nine or ten years ago he committed a Burglary, for which he was then try'd; but for want of full Evidence was acquitted; yet he did not reform. He now acknowledg'd the Justice of God in bringing him to this his deserv'd Condemnation and untimely End in this World, and earnestly pray'd, that he might find Mercy in the next.

After he was condemn'd at the late Sessions in December last, he told me he never was baptiz'd, and earnestly desir'd I would baptize him before his Death, which he then expected. I used my best endeavours to prepare him for that Sacrament, and then administred it to him, and I had afterwards the satisfaction to see (as far as I could observe) that he liv'd according to the Promise he had made therein, from the time of his being taken off the Gallows (to which he was already ty'd when he was respited from Execution on the 17th day of December last) to this day, on which he was effectually Executed.

At the Place of Execution, to which they were this Day carry'd, viz. Mr. Carroll in a Coach, and John Read in a Cart, and where I attended them for the last time, I pray'd and sung some Penitential Psalms with them. I made them rehearse the Apostle's Creed; and then recommending their Souls to God, I left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allotted them.

They desir'd the Spectators to pray for them, and all Men to take Warning by them: And they earnestly pray'd to God, that he would have Mercy upon their Souls. Their Last Words (when just ready to be turn'd off) were such Ejaculatory Expressions as follow: viz. Mr. Carroll utter'd himself to this effect, Lord, forgive my Sins; Forgive me my great Sins! Deal not with me as I have deserved. Lord, look in mercy upon me! Lord, help me! Christ have mercy upon my Soul! Heaven save me! Lord comfort me! Lord receive me, &c.

And John Read , who seem'd to be discompos'd for his being brought a second time to this Place, thus cry'd to God for Mercy. Lord Jesus, wash away my Sins in thy Blood! Lord, save me, or I perish! Have mercy upon me, and help me! O God, the Father of Heaven be merciful unto me! O save my Soul for thy Mercies sake O Thou Lamb of God, and Lover of Souls, have mercy upon me, and receive me! Cast me not away; but help me and deliver me! Thou art my Helper and my Redeemer, Make no long tarrying, O my God! &c.

Here follows the Copy of Mr. Carroll's Paper, deliver'd to the Ordinary at the Place of Execution, which he desired should be inserted here for Satisfaction of the Publick.

I Was Born in Ireland , of a good Antient Family. My Name is Lawrence Carroll . I was Educated in the Roman Catholick Religion, of which I now die a Member, and as such I humbly desire to partake of the Communion of Saints, and Prayers of the whole Catholick Church, and hope that through the Merits of the Death and Passion of my Saviour Jesus Christ, I shall receive Pardon and Forgiveness from God for all my Sins, as I freely forgive all the World, and beg they would do the same by me.

As for my Conversation in the World, it has been, I own, very irregular, following the Vanity of the World, and in a manner wholly neglecting my Duty to my God, for which it has pleased the Divine Majesty to permit my present Affliction, and as such I receive it from the Hand of God.

As for the Fact for which I suffer, I am sensible I was guilty of it, not through any premeditated Malice, but through the Misfortune of my being in Drink, and the Misfortune of that poor Man, who, I suppose, did not know that I was so. I acknowledge my Fault, and am heartily sorry for it, humbly begging Pardon of God, and of the poor Man's Wife whom I killed, protesting, upon the Words of a Dying Man, that I am sory it does not lye in my power to make her amends, and to all the World also, whom I any ways offended. Yet, however, I am to this Minute Ignorant of any Circumstances of the Fact for which I dye: Nor do I remember that I had any Women in my Company upon that Occasion; tho' such a Thing was alledg'd against me at my Tryal. I beg that all young Men may take Warning by me, and think on their Duty to God, whose Mercy is great, and whose Justice, tho' slow, yet is very sure. I declare again, That I dye in the Communion of the Holy Catholick and Apostolical Church of Rome, and desire the good Prayers of all the Members of it; and, That I dye in Charity with all the World.

January, 28. 1708.

Lau. Carroll .

This is all the Account now to be given of these Malefactors, by

Paul Lorrain , Ordinary .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

*** Robert Whitledge , a Book-binder , at the Sign of the Bible in Creed-lane , within Ludgate ; sells all manner of Bibles, Common-Prayers, the Statutes at large, and other Books, either neatly bound or unbound, at cheap rates.

Just Published (Printed on Fine Paper, with a large Letter, and Approved of by above 30 School-Masters as the best Spelling-book extant) useful also for Foreigners.

A Guide to the English Tongue, in Two Parts; the First shewing a natural and easie Method to Pronounce and Express both Common Words and proper Names: In which particular Care is had to shew the Accent for preventing vicious Pronunciation. The Second, containing Observations on the Sound of Letters and Diphthongs, Rules for the true division of Syllables, and the Use of Capitals, Stops and Marks, with large Tables of Abbreviations and distinctions of Words, and several Alphabets of Instructions for Young Writers. By Tho. Dyche , School-Master in London . Printed for Sam. Butler , at Bernard's-Inn-Gate , in Holbourn . Price Bound, 1. s.

The Duke of Rohan's Manual: or a Guide for all Degrees of Officers, from a Subaltern to a Captain-General. Containing the Whole Art of War, and Military Discipline of the Ancients and Moderns. In which is comprehended their Marches, Quarterings, Fortifications, Encampments, Manner of Besieging and Defending Towns, making and sustaining Assaults; their Stratagems, Surprizes, and Methods of Engagements, both in Parties and Field-Battles. To which is prefixt an Abridgement of Caesar's Commentaries, with Political Remarks upon our present Wars, and the Enterprizes of the Greeks and Romans. Translated by a Gentleman in the Army. Printed for S. B. and Sold by B. Bragg, at the Raven in Pater-noster-Row.

† An Enchiridion of Feavers incident to Seamen (during the Summer) in the Meditterranean; explicating their Causes, Antecedent and Conjunct; likewise their Symptoms, and Method of Cure. With several Medicinal Observations, and necessary Remarks thereon. By Thomas Bates , Surgeon . Printed for J. Barnes, at the Crown in the Pall-Mall, and sold by B. Bragge, in Pater-Noster-Row.

Just Publish'd,

Bumography: Or, A Touch at the Lady's Tails. Being a Lampoon privately dispers'd at Tunbridge-Wells, in the Year, 1707. by a Water-Drinker. Also a merry Elegy upon Mother Jefferies, the ancient Water-Dipper. Price 1 s. The first and second part of the Pulpit Fool, giving a distinct Character of the most noted Clergy-Men in the Queens Dominions, both Church-Men and Dissenters. All sold by the Book-seller of London and Westminster.

Memoirs of the right Villianous John Hall , the late famous and Notorious Robber. Pen'd from his Mouth some time before his Death. Containing the exact Life, and Character of a Thief in General. As also a lively Representation of Newgate , and its Inhabitants, with the Manners and Customs observed there. The Nature and Means by which they commit their several Thefts and Robberies, and the Distinctions observed in their respective Function. To which is added, the Cant generally us'd by those Sort of People to conceal their Villanies; and Rules to avoid being Robb'd or Cheated by them. Usefully set forth for the Good of the Publick, at the Instance of many honest People.

The Prophetical Warnings of John Lacy , Esq ; pronounc'd under the Operation of the Spirit, and faithfully taken in Writing when they were spoken. Printed for B. Bragge, at the Raven in Pater-noster-row, Price 6 d. Where may be had the 2d & 3d Parts, by the said Author. As a so a Book entituled, An Answer to Enthusiastick Impostors no Divinely In spir'd Prophets.

The Sot-weed Factor: Or, a Voyage to Mary and, a Satyr. In which is describ'd, the Laws, Governments, Courts and Constitutions of the Country; and also the Buildings, Feasts Frolicks, Entertainments and Drunken Humours of the Inhabitants of that Part of America: In Burlesque Verse. By Eben. Cook Gent.

A New Years Gift; in Two Parts: Part I. Early Piety Or, A Serious Exhortation to Young Persons, to remember their Creator in the Days of their Youth: With Examples of divers Persons famous for their Early Piety. Part II. The Devout Christian's Manual; Containing Devotions for several Occasions, Ordinary and Extraordinary. To which is added, A Morning and Evening Hymn; By Thomas late Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells. The 2d Edition, with Additions.

The Crucified Saviour: or, a Preparation to a Worthy Receiving the Holy Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, in Meditations and Prayers for Morning and Evening, for every Day in the Week. As also Meditations and Prayers Before, At and After Receiving the Blessed Sacrament; with Rules and Directions how to Live well after it. Both Printed for C. Bates at the Sun and Bible in Guiltspur-street.

This Day is Publish'd, The Sixth Edition of

The Secret History of the Calves-head Club Compleat; or the Republican Unmask'd; wherein is fully shewn the Religiou of the Calves-head Heroes, in their Anniversary Thanksgiving Songs ou the 30th of January, by them called Anthems, for 1693, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, &c. with Reflections thereupon. To which is annexed, a Vindication of K. Charles wherein are laid open the Republican Mysteries of Rebellion, with the Effigies of Oliver Cromwell and his Cabinet Councel. By Mr. Butler, Author of Hudibras. Sold by B. Bragge.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by Benj. Bragg , at the Raven in Pater-noster-Row .

