THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, & Dying Words Of the NINE MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Wednesday the 21st of JANUARY, 1746-7.

BEING THE First EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble William Benn , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER I. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street.

M.DCC.XLVII.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir RICHARD HOARE , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; John Stracey , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER, and TERMINER, for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City, and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 3d, Thursday the 4th, and Friday the 5th of September, in the 20th Year of his Majesty's reign; four Malefactors, viz. BARNABY LINCE , alias LINSEY , JOHN PIDGEON , FELIX MATHEWS , and ANTHONY MATHEWS , were capitally convicted for several Crimes, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

And by Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER, and TERMINER, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable Sir RICHARD HOARE , Knt . Lord-Mayor of the City of London ; the Right Honourable the Lord Chief Justice WILLES, the Honourable Mr. Justice FOSTER, the Honourable Mr. Baron REYNOLDS, and JOHN STRACY , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER of the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 15th, Thursday the 16, and Friday the 17th of October,

in the 20th Year of his Majesty's reign four Malefactors, viz. SAMUEL MEGUM , ROBERT RADWELL , ROBERT FITZGERALD , and PHILIP JEWEL , were capitally convicted for several Crimes, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

And by Virtue of the King's Commission of Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable WILLIAM BENN , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Honourable Mr. Justice AHNEY, the Honourable Mr. Justice DENISON, the Honourable Mr. Baron CLARKE, and JOHN STRACY , Esq ; Recorder , and Others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall in the Old Baily on Friday the 5th, Saturday the 6th, Monday the 8th, and Tuesday the 9th of December, in the 20th Year of his Majesty's Reign, four Malefactors viz. JAMES ROBINSON , alias JOHN WILKINS , RICHARD CLAY , JOHN MATHEWS , and PETER DELAFONTAINE , were capitally convicted for several Crimes, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

JOHN PIDGEON whom his Majesty has been graciously pleased to respite ) came to Chapel the very next Day after his Condemnation, and continually attended the Service with great Devotion, and a decent Behaviour; the first Time he received the Sacrament, he made great Protestations of his Innocency as to the Facts for which he was cast.

BARNABY LINCE , alias LINSEY , FELIX MATHEWS , and ANTHONY MATHEWS , came to Chapel only three Times after Condemnation, and when desired to attend constantly, made answer, that they would not change their Religion, but earnestly beg'd to have the Assistance of a Romish Priest, by whom they were some Times visited at the Intercession of a charitable Friend.

SAMUEL MECUM , ROBERT RADWELL , and PHILIP JEWEL , came to Divine Service immediately after they had receiv'd Sentence, and behaved always very decent and regular; Radwell and Jewell were at first afflicted with Sickness, but after their Recovery, they constantly attended.

ROBERT FITZGERALD , tho' he declar'd himself a Papist , came now and then to Prayers, and carried himself with a suitable Behaviour.

JOHN WILKINS , otherwise JAMES ROBINSON , RICHARD CLAY , and JOHN MATTHEWS , constantly attended at Chapel, both before and after Condemnation, and always behaved very decently.

PETER DELAFONTAINE , (whose Sentence of Death his Majesty has been most graciously pleas'd to change into that of Transportation for Life ,) acknowledged himself a Protestant, and came to Divine Service: I lent him our Liturgy in French, and a French Testament, for which he was very thankful, and was regular in his Devotions.

On Thursday January the 8th, the Report of the twelve Malefactors under Sentence of Death in Newgate was made by John Stracy Esq ; the Recorder , to his Majesty in Council, when his Majesty was pleased to order Peter Delafontaine , who was condemn'd for publishing a forged Bill of Exchange, to be transported for Life, and to respite John Pidgeon , who was condemn'd for privately Stealing a Silver Watch; and to order for Execution on Wednesday the 21st Instant the Ten following, viz. Felix Mathews and Anthony Mathews , both Haymakers , convicted for robbing Mr. Lewis a Farmer near Hendon , Barney Lynce a Boy of about 19 Years of age, for a Highway robbery, convicted in September Sessions, Samuel Mecum for breaking and entring the dwelling House of Mr. Hilliers in White-chapel , Phillip Jewel for Stealing a silver Tankard and Cup, out of the Shop of Mr. Robert Hill in Swithens-lane , Cannon-street , Robert Radwell for Stealing a black Gelding from Mr. Arnold, belonging to the Train of Artillery, Robert Fitzgerald for uttering a Forg'd Bill of Exchange with intent to defraud Arnold Nesbit Esq ; convicted in October Sessions, John Wilkins , a Soldier , for robbing Jane Todd in the Highway near Islington , Richard Clay (an Accomplice with James Stansbury , some time since executed, and with Samuel Mecum ) John Mathews for breaking open the dwelling House of Mr. Francis Milson at the Green Man at White-chapel convicted in December Sessions.

I. BARNABY LINCE was indicted for assaulting Mr. Dunn , and Mr. Ambler , putting them in bodily Fear, and robbing the said Mr. Dunn of a Watch, and Mr. Ambler of a Coat, Breeches, &c. on the 29th of June .

BARNABY LINCE , alias BARNEY LINDSEY , aged 19, was born of honest well-meaning Parents at a Place called Tyrane , in the Kingdom of Ireland , who educated him in the Principles of the Romish Faith , sent him to School, and would have provided for him in a Manner suitable to their Circumstances; and for that Purpose, put him to a Ship-Carpenter : But being fickle in his Temper, and too much given to the Vices of Youth, he soon left his Parents and Friends, and travell'd to Dublin : From thence he came to Chester , and afterwards travell'd through different Counties till he reach'd this Metropolis, working at his Trade in several Places where he could find Employ, particularly at Bristol , where he liv'd some Time; and, as 'tis said, married a Baker's Daughter of that Place: But being tax'd therewith, he utterly denied it, saying, he never was married in his Life; but had cohabited (young as he was) with many Women. He seemed very much to regret his leaving Bristol , where he had constant Employ as a Ship-Carpenter , and could and did earn, as he says, eight Shillings a Day: But Variety, his darling Joy, made him quit a Scene of Content for one of Misery. He left Bristol , and came to London , where he became acquainted with Wretches abandon'd to all Sense of Shame or Honesty; and being of himself naturally of a vicious, bold and daring Spirit, he soon arrived to the

Summit of Wickedness, and committed a Number of audacious Robberies, the Particulars of which he has impartially related (as they stand in our Appendix) to be made publick to the World, as the only, tho' poor Satisfaction, he had left to make. He died in Peace with all Mankind, in the Romish Faith ; and most humbly asked Pardon of God and Man for all his Crimes, particularly for that of being the Cause of shedding innocent Blood, having committed the Robbery for which one Bruce was hang'd in August last. He hopes for Salvation through the Merits of our dear Redeemer.

II. and III. FELIX MATHEWS and ANTHONY MATHEWS , were indicted for assaulting and wounding John Lewis upon the King's Highway, near the Parish of Hendon , and putting him in bodily Fear and Danger of his Life, and robbing him of his Hat, Perriwig, two Ounces of green Tea, a Thirty six Shilling Piece, one Guinea, and Half a Guinea in Gold, twenty Shillings in Silver, &c. the Goods of the aforesaid John Lewis , on the 22d of July .

FELIX and ANTHONY MATHEWS , aged each about 30, were both born in the Town of Chloanness , in the County of Monarchay in Ireland , of poor but honest Parents, who gave them little or no Education, but brought them up in the Romish Faith ; and when they were strong enough, put them to such Labouring work as they were capable of. As they were Neighbours Children, they contracted an Intimacy and Friendship together, which ended only with their Lives. They came to London about a Year since, and lodged together in Parker's Lane, work'd as Labouring Men at Islington, and other Places. Meeting with Barnaby Lince , who was their Countryman, they drank together; and being ripe for any Mischief, they soon agreed to set out to rob together; and notwithstanding Lince's publick Declaration in the Daily Advertiser, that they were innocent of robbing Mr. Lewis of Hendon , they were surely guilty of that Fact, as well as of many others, as will appear in the Account of the Robberies commited by Barnaby Lince hereto subjoined, almost all of which they had some hand in: However, they were obstinately sullen, would confess nothing, but said, they forgave, and died in Peace with all the World.

IV. SAMUEL MECUM was indicted for that he together with Richard Clay and John Mathews , about One o'Clock in the Night, into the Dwelling-House of John Hillier of White-chapel , did break and enter, and steal one Cotton Gown, two Linnen Shirts, two Womens Linnen Caps, one Pair of Worsted Stockings, two Pewter Dishes, six Pewter Plates, one Gun, &c. the Goods and Chattels of John Hillier ; and a long Lawn Apron, one Copper Pot, &c. of certain Persons unknown .

N. B. This Mecum, has been a notorious Robber and House-Breaker; he was found Guilty of two Indictments, last September Sessions, and received Sentence for Transportation.

SAMUEL MECUM , about 28 Years of Age, was born of honest Parents in

Shoreditch , who brought him up to the Trade of a Hatband-Maker , which at Times he followed; but being of an idle Disposition, he soon got acquainted with bad Company, particularly with James Stansbury , the noted Master of the Blood-Bowl House, sometime since executed, with whom he committed several Robberies. As he had been guilty of several such Facts, he was suspected to be concern'd in a Robbery and Murder committed about five Years since on one 'Squire Peacock, in the Vinegar Fields, near Holloway Mount , about which I question'd him; but he utterly denied it. He was found guilty of two Indictments last September Sessions, and received Sentence for Transportation; but being again indicted for the above capital Offence, he was found guilty, and deservedly suffer'd. He owned he had been a very great Sinner, and that he justly died, and hoped for Forgiveness, through the Merit of Jesus Christ.

V. ROBERT RADWELL , was indicted for stealing one Gelding, of a black Colour, the Property of John Arnold , Esq.

ROBERT RADWELL , aged 43, born at Eaton , but brought up at Sandy in Bedfordshire , of honest and creditable Parents, who gave him some small Education, for he could only read, but had constantly endeavour'd to live in an honest Way amongst his Neighbours, who (if he had acquainted them with his unhappy Affairs) would, Numbers of them, have come to London on purpose to have given him a good Character; for he always lived in a reputable Manner there ever since he was capable of Business, both as a Farmer and Carrier ; and after he met with many Losses therein, was employ'd as a Servant to several Farmers, whom he continually served with Faithfulness and Honesty. His Behaviour, in Prison, has been with the utmost regularity; and altho' he was grosly ignorant of religious Matters, yet he never absented himself from Chapel, unless afflicted with Sickness, of which he had a great Share during his Confinement in the Cells of Newgate . He owned the Fact of putting the Horse to Sale, but said he was much in Liquor, and short of Money, and therefore was tempted by the Devil to commit this rash Action, for which he was heartily sorry; and hopes, as he forgives all Mankind, that he shall meet with Forgiveness both at the Hand of God and Man, not only for that, but for all his other Sins.

His Majesty has been graciously pleased to reprieve Robert Radwell .

VI. ROBERT FITZGERALD was indicted for Counterfeiting a Bill of Exchange for the Sum of 21 l 15 s. drawn upon Mr. Arnold Nesbit and Company , of Coleman-street , payable to Capt . John Hancock , or uttering the same, knowing it to be forg'd, with an Intent to defraud the abovesaid Nesbit and Company .

ROBERT FITZGERALD , aged 26, was born of reputable Parents in Ireland, near Dublin , who gave him a very liberal Education, and brought him up in the Romish Faith . He was never in any other Employ than that of a Clerk to Merchants and wholesale Dealers : He has been in London about 9 or

10 Years, and lived with several Gentlemen with Honesty and Reputation, till the committing the above Fact, which he confesses, and most heartily begs Forgiveness and Pardon of God Almighty, and the Gentlemen he endeavour'd to wrong; and so far was he from bearing any Malice towards his Prosecutors, that he desired me to mention, that he applauds their Diligence in doing Justice to themselves and to Mankind, and that he freely forgave them and all the World, and died in Peace.

VII. PHILIP JEWEL was indicted for stealing one Quart Silver Tankard, Value, 5 l. 5 s. and one Silver Cup Value, 4 l. 10 s. the Goods of Robert Hill , of Swithin's Lane .

PHILIP JEWEL , born of very mean Parents near the Skirts of the Town, was near 20 Years of Age, very surly, and very illiterate; would make no Confession, but only said, that he hoped for Salvation, and died in Peace.

VIII. RICHARD CLAY , was indicted for breaking open, and entering (about One in the Night, the 16th of May,) the Dwelling-house of Francis Wilson of White-chapel , and stealing from thence one Gun, five Pewter Plates, value 6 s. three Copper Saucepans, a Tea-Kettle, value 8 s. a Duffil Coat, value 2 s. one Pair of Leather Shoes, two Horse-wips, one Looking-glass, &c. the Goods of Francis Wilson ; three Guns, value 40 s. and three Bayonets, the Goods of Edward Chester ; two Camblet Coats, the Goods of Samuel Martin ; one Box-Iron, the Property of Mrs. Ellis ; one Great Coat, and Horsewip, the Goods of - Loyd .

He was a second Time indicted, with John Mathews , for a Burglary, breaking and entring feloniously the Dwelling-house of John Hillier of Whitechapel , about the Hour of One in the Night, and stealing from thence two Linnen Aprons, value 1 s. a Table-Cloth, value 1 s. two Linnen Handkerchiefs, value 9 d. two Pewter Plates, value 3 s. 1 Brass Pepper-Box, 1 Gun, value 7 s. and several other Goods, the Property of the said John Hillier , the 6th of June .

RICHARD CLAY , 28 Years of Age, was born in Shoreditch of honest Parents, he was never put Apprentice, but lived with his Father, and work'd at his Trade, which was that of a Stocking Frame Knitter ; after his Father's Death, he followed the Business for some Time, till he spent what little Fortune his Father left him, and then went to Sea; was four or five Years in the Merchants Service , then enter'd on Board the Wolf Sloop of War , in which he was taken Prisoner by the French, and carried into St. Maloes ; was released, came back to England, and got acquainted with a wicked Gang of young Fellows, with whom he committed a Number of Robberies: Which he confess'd his Sorrow for and Repentance of, but did not chuse to particularize them; having, as is too often the Case with those poor unhappy Wretches, more Regard for their surviving Companions than for their own precious Souls. He behaved while under Sentence, seriously and devoutly, and came constantly to Chapel. He heartily forgave every Person that had injured him, and died in Peace with all the World, and hop'd for a

Remission of his Sins, thro' the Merits of our Lord Jesus Christ.

IX. JOHN MATHEWS , was indicted with the aforenamed Richard Clay , for a Burglary, breaking and entering feloniously the Dwelling-house of John Hillier , of White-chapel , beforementioned.

JOHN MATHEWS , aged 33, was born of Parents of Credit and Reputation, near Canterbury , who gave him a liberal and handsome Education (which appear'd in his Behaviour, while under Condemnation, instructing his fellow Sufferers, reading incomparably well, &c.) he was brought up to no Trade, but followed the Sea , he has been three Times taken Prisoner in Privateers, and carried to France , it not being above eight Months since his last Releasement confessed the Fact for which he own'd he had been a very wicked young Man, had committed many Crimes, but like his Companion Clay, was resolved to make no particular Confession; but said he forgave the World, as he hoped for Forgiveness from Almighty God, that he died in Peace and Charity with all this World, and hoped for a joyful Resurrection in the World to come.

X. JOHN WILKINS , otherwise JAMES ROBINSON , was indicted with HENRY COBB , for a Robbery on the King's Highway, committed on Jane Todd , putting her in bodily Fear, and taking from her one Camblet Gown, value 10 s. one Pair of Breeches, value 5 s. and one Bag, the Goods of David Silver of Islington , the 25th of October .

JOHN WILKINS , (whose right Name was JAMES ROBINSON ) the other Name of JOHN WILKINS being given in at the Justices by his Comrade HENRY COBB , though he never went by it, aged 20, born at Wollerton in Northamptonshire , of mean, tho' honest Parents, who, having a large Family of Children, could not give them any Education, so that he could neither read nor write, and was wholly ignorant of Religion: He was put Apprentice to a Taylor , whom he served about four Years, but his Master dying, he followed Labouring Business, till a Relation of his coming into the Country, and making him drunk, enlisted him in his Majesty's Service, in which he has been upwards of two Years, belonging to the Third Regiment of Foot-Guards , was at the Battle of Fontenoy and very lately come from Flanders . He complained much of the Unkindness of his Cousin, who had been the Cause of his entering into the Military Way, for not visiting him under his Afflictions, nor sending him any Relief; and being entirely Friendless, and without any Support, at first entering into the Cells, made him foolishly enquire after a Surgeon to purchase his Body, to supply his present Necessities. He acknowledges his Crime, but says it was his first Fact, and that he was enticed thereunto, being fuddled, by his above-mentioned Acquaintance Cobb, is heartily sorry for it, and repents him truly of that and all his other Sins: He was never married, behaved modestly, tho' with a seeming Stupidity, both in the Cells and at Chapel, where he constantly attended, unless prevented

by Sickness; was entirely resigned to the Will of God, and as he forgave and died in Peace with all the World, so he hoped for Forgiveness and Salvation hereafter, through the alone Merits and Mediation of Jesus Christ our Lord.

XI. JOHN PIDGEON , otherwise PAGON (which last he says is his right Name, the first being given him by his Companions, from his being a great Fancier of Pidgeons) was first indicted for privately stealing on the 3d of August, a Silver Watch, a Seal set in Silver, and a Watch Key, the Goods of Alexander Denker ; and was a second Time indicted for stealing a Watch, the Property of John Overy , on which Indictments he was found guilty, and received Sentence of Death, but has been since Respited by his Majesty, and is now in the Cells of Newgate .

XII. PETER DE LA FOUNTAIENE , was indicted for feloniously forging and counterfeiting a Promissory Note, under the Hand of one John Baptista Zannier , for the Payment of 220 l. to one Marie Legrand , Widow , or Order, three Months after Date ; which said Paper-writing is as followeth:

January 9, 1746. I promise to pay to Marie Legrand , Widow , or Order, the Sum of two hundred and twenty Pounds, three Months after Date; for Value received by me

*220 00/* John Baptista Zannier .

With an Intent to defraud the said John Baptista Zannier , against the Form of the Statute, and against the Peace, &c.

The second Indictment was for feloniously uttering and publishing the same, knowing it to be forged, with the same Intent to defraud the abovenamed John Baptista Zannier . Being found Guilty, he was sentenced to die; but has since received the Mercy from his Most Gracious Majesty to be transported for Life.

Full and particular Account of the Robberies committed by BARNABY LYNCE , alias BARNEY LINDSEY , and his desperate Gang; for some of which others have suffered. Wherein is contained a circumstantial Relation of the Robbery of a Post-Boy between Kits End and Barnet , actually committed by this Gang, for which one WILLIAM BRUCE was executed last August, who declared his Innocency to the last.

Taken from his own Mouth, while under Sentence of Death in Newgate.

NOtwithstanding such frequent Excutions at Tyburn, the Force of Villany is so prevalent in the Hearts of these hardened Wretches, that these Examples of the Consequence of their wicked Crimes has no Manner of Effect on them, they go to see their Companions hang'd with just the same Curiosity and Sensation as they would to any other Show.

They regard hanging as a Matter of little Consequence; they call it an easy Exit from this World, a momentary Pain. But let such abandoned Wretches remember, that there is AN HEREAFTER, when they must appear before the Judgment Seat of a justly offended God, to give an Account of all their Actions. They should remember too, that the dreadful Sentence of Go, ye tursed into everlasting Fire, &c. is a Sentence from which there is no Ap-peal! no Reprieve! But the Tortures of which they must, they will feel to all Eternity, NEVER to have an End.

BARNABY LYNCE ; though a young Man, being but 19 Years of Age, was perhaps as old in Villany as any of his Predecessors.

When he came from Ireland , he was not long seeking for Companions, the never-failing Devil soon threw them in his Way, and industrious Barnaby as soon went to Work.

I. The first Robbery he gives an Account of was done at Rochester in Kent , on Easter Monday last. He at that Time work'd at his Trade of a Ship-Carpenter in the Dock-Yard, and lodg'd some time at the Royal Oak , where he observ'd a large Iron Chest, in which he had been told there was to the Value of near 3000 l. He acquainted two of his Companions therewith, and they consulted together in what manner they should become Masters of its Contents; for the Chest it self was too heavy to carry off. Accordingly one Night Lince and his two Companions sat up in the House drinking Bumbo, in which Liquor they spent 17 s. and about four in the Morning they began their Attack. There were but two Men and three Women up; they immediately seiz'd on the Men, who for some time made Resistance; but being at length overpower'd,they tied them together, and the three Women with them, and then began to rifle the House. Barney, whose Intent was chiefly on the Chest, designing, he said, if he found the Booty there he expected, to have return'd to his own Country, and never to rob no more. Accordingly he directs his Companions to search the House for the Plate and Money, while he sat down to work on the Chest; He took a Knife and notch'd it on a Cleaver, to make it like a Saw, and work'd till he had, by dint of Labour, saw'd through two of the Bolts; but while he was about the third, the Townsfolk were alarm'd by one of the Men, who had got himself loose, and Barney and his Companions were forced to fly; nevertheless, they took with them some Rings, Money, Plate and Linen, which his Companions had found while he was busy about the Chest, and made the best of their Way to London , where they disposed of their Effects, divided the Produce, and while that lasted, fared sumptuously.

II. His Second Robbery he ventured by himself, Walking one Day towards Streatham in Surry , he met a Gentleman whom he stopp'd, saying, Sir, I desire to borrow a little Money of you; the Gentleman demanding the meaning of his Question, he reply'd, Money I want, and Money I will have, or you shall have my Life, or I yours, on which he begg'd I would not strip him, and he would give me what he had; and accordingly deliver'd me his Watch, Half a Crown and two Sixpences, I ask'd him where he liv'd, he told me in the Neighbourhood, not far off, upon which I return'd him his Money again, telling him, I would keep his Watch, but for his Money 'twas hardly worth a Man's venturing his Life for, and he might take it again, and go and regale himself with his Neighbours.

III. Being one Night seven of us together out on the Watch, we came to a Publick House at Mims-Wash ; being all of us well arm'd, we boldly enter'd the House, where we found two Men and three Women, whom we attack'd, demanding their Money and Keys; they made but a saint Resistance seeing so many of us, deliver'd what they had; we tied them together and rifled the House, and took what we could find; in going over the Rooms I observed a Watch hanging to a Bed's Teaster, which I put into my Pocket as a lawful Prize (which I afterwards sold at Cambridge for four Guineas) and hearing at the same Time some body knock at the Door I went down and opened it, where I found a Man on Horseback who wanted a Pint of Beer; I desired him to walk in; he tied his Horse to the Door, came in, and one of my Companions drew some Beer, and we treated him; after we had taken what Money we could find in the House, together with some Moveables, my Companions walk'd off, and bid me see all was safe, and take the Man's Horse and follow them, and when they were gone, I went in, made the two Men and three Women drink each of them six large Glasses of Brandy, which I thought would hinder them from pursuing us; theymade a good deal of Difficulty in doing it; especially the Women, but my powerful Argument, a Pistol, persuaded them, and I then followed my Companions on Foot, leaving the Man and his Horse behind; by the Time I had overtaken them, I found they were industriously minding their Business, for they had stopp'd a Post Boy, as follows.

IV. Between Kits End and Barnet , a Boy in a Post Chaise, who was travelling towards Chester, overtook Barnaby's Companions, who notwithstanding their being loaded with the Plunder of their last Robbery, could let nothing pass them, determined to attack, and immediately surrounded the Chaise and demanded the Boy's Money, by which Time Barney Lynce had got up with them, and seeing them very busy, immediately lent a helping Hand, haul'd the Boy himself out of the Chaise, and with an Oath demanded his Money; he was at this Time dress'd in Blue Grey and White Metal Buttons according to the Description the Boy gave of the unhappy William Bruce , who was executed for this Fact, tho' absolutely innocent, and who died protesting his Innocence to the last. They took from him his Whig, his Hankerchief, and 8 s. 10 d. in Money, but his Hankerchief, Lynce says, they gave him again, and the Boy was suffer'd to go on.

V. Immediately after they had committed this Robbery, they robbed two other Gentlemen coming along the same Road, from one of whom they took 19 s. 6 d. and from the other 6 s. 8 d. and his Whig and silver Buckles. By which time the Post-Boy had got to the Crown at Kits End, and had alarm'd the People, a Number of whom immediately arm'd themselves with such Weapons they could find, pursued Barney and his Companions, and came up with them. Lynce, like an experienc'd General, when he found his Pursuers gained Ground of him, dispatched three of his Companions forward with the Baggage (who in their Flight threw away their Booty for fear of their being overtaken.) In the mean time he, with the remaining three, stood their Ground, prepar'd for the Enemy, and, soon as they came within Pistol Shot, Lynce let fly at them with his Horse Pistol loaded with a Brace of Balls, taking all the Aim he possibly could, with an Intent to kill, if he could, being the only time, he says, he ever shot at or attempted to kill any Person whatsoever; and so near was he to it now, that one of the Balls went through the Hat of one of his Pursuers: However, this so terrify'd the People who pursued them, that it gave them time to make their Escapes, and they got clear off, and came to London .

VI. Some time after six of us having been at May-Fair , one of the Company proposed the robbing of a Farm-House, kept by a Widow Woman between Acton and Harrow , which was agreed to as soon as propos'd, and away we went. When we came to the House, we knock'd at the Door; which being opened to us, we all went in, where we found three or four Men, and some Women, who demanded what we wanted, we told them our Business was Money, and we must have it. They beganto make a Bustle, and to resist; but we soon qu'eted them, and tied them, Men and Women, altogether, except a little Girl, who we took along with us to shew us the House. After taking about 15 or 16 l. some Cloaths and Linen, we tied the Girl to the rest, and made off.

N.B. When I was in Clerkenwell Prison , the Gentlewoman who kept that Farms came in and view'd the Prisoners. I knew her, tho' she did not know me, being much alter'd in my Dress. When I committed that Robbery I was dress'd in a blue Coat with silver Buttons, a red Wastecoat with a gold Twist, and a Wigg which cost three Guineas.

VII. Three of us one Night met one Mr. Simmonds in a Field near Islington , who had with him a Dog; we knock'd him down, and took from him his Watch and Money, and his Shoes and Stockings: The Dog seeing his Master fall, began to fly at us; but we soon kill'd him, and made off.

VIII. We broke open a House near the Cock Alehouse in Islington , one Morning about Ten a-Clock, while the Woman was gone to London to Market, from whence we took a Watch, some Plate, and some Rings.

IX. Seven of us went out together one Evening, and met two Gentlemen (who afterwards appear'd to be, Mr. Ambler and Mr. Dunn) in the Hollowway , just beyond Pancras , about 8 or 9 at Night, coming from Hampstead, whom we attack'd and order'd to stand; they at first refus'd, and made some Shew of Resistance, when one of my Companions drew a Scymetar, and was going to cut them down, but I prevented him, notwithstanding which several of them hit them with their Bludgeons over the Head and other Parts of the Body; we took from Mr. Ambler about 15 s. or 16 s. his Breeches, his Shoes and Knee Buckles; and as it appear'd afterwards his Shirt and Coat, which one of my Companions shew'd me next Morning, which occasioned between us a hearty Quarrel, for after we had tied them we left two to guard them while we went to see if the Coast was clear, who like Scoundrels in the mean Time strip'd them of their Shirts and Coats; from Mr. Dunn we took about 10 s. 6 d. and his Watch.

X. The next Robbery we committed was that on Mr. Lewis; it was one Night between 8 and 9 o'Clock; there were five of us then in Company when we met Mr. Lewis near Hendon ; he was on Horseback and we on Foot; we immediately attack'd him, knocked him off his Horse and took from him his Money, his Knee Buckles, some Sugar, and some Tea, his Hat and Wigg, and made off.

As I have committed in my Time a Number of Robberies, which do not immediately occur to my Memory; I hope the Relation of the above, which is to the best of my Knowledge literally true, will satisfy the Publick; it is the last Debt (except my Life) I can pay, and as a dying Man I hope the World, that Part of it especially whom I have so basely wrong'd, will forgive me, as I do most heartily myself forgive them.

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

THE Morning of their Execution, five of them, viz. Samuel Mecum , John Mathews , Richard Clay , James Robinson , and Philip Jewel , came up to Chapel, appeared very devout, and received the Holy Sicrament. The other four, viz. Robert Fitzgerald , Barnaby Lynce , Felix Mathews , and Anthony Mathews , being of the Romists . Faith, remained in their Cells, where they were visited by their Priest. After their Devotions were over, they were all brought into the Press-Yard, had their Fetters knock'd off, and were eight of them halter'd; the last Person who was to be halter'd being Mr. Fitzgerald, the Keeper of Newgate was told there was a Rope wanting, there being but eight to halter nine Men; when Robinson, the Soldier , (the last halter'd) told them, They might, if they pleased, halter'd. They were carried to the Place of Execution, between Twelve and One o'Clock at Noon, in three Carts, and a Mourning-Coach. In the first Cart was Barnaby Lynes , Felix Mathews , and Anthony Mathews : In the second, John Mathews , Samuel Mecum , and Richard Clay : In the third, was Philip Jewel and James Robinson the Soldier; and last of all, Robert Fitzgerald in the Mourning-Coach. Being arrived at the Place of Execution, Felix and Anthony Mathews were exhorted to confess the Robbery of Mr. Lewis of Hendon, for which they were going to suffer; but they denied their being concern'd in it to the last Moment. They all behaved with a Decency becoming their unhappy Circumstances, particularly Mr. Fitzgerald. Lynce, Felix and Anthony Mathews , declared that they were born, bred, and died in the Communion of the Church of Rome . The other five declared themselves Protestants: And they all went off the Stage, crying to the Lord to have Mercy on their Souls.

This is all the Account given by me, SAMUEL ROSSELL , M.A . Ordinary of Newgate .

Just Published, THE PRISONER's DIRECTOR:

Compiled for the Instruction and Comfort of Persons under Confinement. Whether for Debt, for Capital, or other Crimes; more especially for those under Sentence of Death.

Containing proper and necessary Directions to the Former, how to improve their Solitude and Confinement, to their Spiritual Advantage: And Instructions to the Latter, how to behave themselves during their Imprisonment, and to prepare for Death.

By SAMUEL ROSSELL , M. A . Ordinary of Newgate .

Printed for the AUTHOR, and sold by C. CORBETT over-against St. Dunstan's Church, Fleetstreet. 1746.

Of whom may be had The Clergyman's Companion, in Visiting the Goals.

COntaining a Collection of Curious Pieces, written by some of our most Eminent Divines.

Together With several Publick Offices used in, or prepared for the Churches of England, Ireland and Denmark.

By SAMUEL ROSSELL , M.A . Ordinary of Newgate .

