THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the EIGHT MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the 29th of JULY, 1751.

BEING THE Sixth EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble Francis Cokayne , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER VI. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LI.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden before the Rt. Hon. FRANCIS COKAYNE , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Lord Chief Baron PARKER, Sir MICHAEL FOSTER , Knt . Sir THOMAS BIRCH , Knt . RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City of London, and County of Middlesex, at Justice Hall in the Old-Baily , on Wednesday the 3d, Thursday the 4th, Friday the 5th, and Saturday the 6th of July, in the Twenty-fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign; JOHN YOUNG , ROBERT GLASCOW , WILLIAM BROWN , EDWARD DIXON , THOMAS CATCHPOLE , RICHARD HOLLAND , DANIEL THOROWGOOD , otherwise DAN the Baker , THOMAS MASTERSON , JOHN THOMPSON , otherwise GARRET LAWLER .

Their Behaviour has been since Conviction tolerable well, considering what Wretches they were. Lawler, Masterson, and Thorowgood, were profess'd Roman Catholicks , and were visited as usual; the rest attended the Service of the Chapel, and for the most Part shew'd Marks of Contrition, and Sorrow for their past Offences.

On Wednesday the 24th Instant, the Report of ten Malefactors was made by Mr. Recorder to his Majesty in Council, when he was pleased to order the eight following for Execution, viz. Robert Glascow , William Brown , Edward Dixon , Thomas Catchpole , Richard

Holland , Daniel Thorowgood , otherwise Dan the Baker, Thomas Masterson , and John Thompson , otherwise Garret Lawler , on Monday the 29th of July. Michael Levi convicted in May Sessions for Buggary, and John Young for the Highway were respited at the same Time, till his Majesty's Pleasure concerning them be further known .

1. ROBERT GLASCOW was indicted, for that he in a certain Foot-way, or open Plain, near the King's Highway, on Joseph Weden did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, and Danger of his Life, 1 Gold Ring, val. 10 s. 1 Pair of Silver Shoe-Buckles, val. 5 s. 1 Silver Tobacco-Stopper, val. 5 s. 1 Penknife, val. 3 d. 1 Guinea, and 8 d. in Money numbered, from his Person did steal, take, and carry away. May 22 d .

2. EDWARD DIXON was indicted, for being with others to the Number of twenty and upwards, armed with Fire Arms, and other offensive Weapons, in order to be aiding and assisting in landing uncustomed Goods. October 8, 1746 .

3. THOMAS CATCHPOLE , was indicted for not surrendering himself, according to the King's Order in Council .

4, 5. RICHARD HOLLAND , and DANIEL THOROWGOOD , otherwise DAN the Baker , were indicted, for that they on the King's Highway, on Henry Debbins did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, and Danger of his Life, 1 Metal Watch, val. 30 s. 1 Pocket-Book, and Leathern Case, 1 Piece of Silver Coin, val. 6 d. and five Shillings in Money numbered, from his Person did steal, &c. June 11th .

6, 7. THOMAS MASTERSON , and JOHN THOMPSON , otherwise GARRET LAWLER , were indicted, for that they on the King's Highway, on William Couty did make an Assault, putting him in bodily Fear, and stealing from him one Hat, val. 4 s. one Peruke, val. 10 s. May 26th .

8. WILLIAM BROWN was indicted, for forging a Letter of Attorney, in the Name of George Mackenzie , late Master's Mate of his Majesty's Ship the Inverness , and for publishing it with Intent to defraud. Sept. 20th, 1749 .

1. WILLIAM BROWN , aged 23, was born in St. Andrew's , in the County of Frith , in Scotland , of very honest, and worthy Parents; and he gave this Account of himself under his own Hand, viz. My Father dying when I was young, my Mother took Care to have me educated and instructed in useful Literature, as far as lay in her Power, it being her Intention, that I should study Divinity, or Physick, at the University of St. Andrews, and to be under her Inspection, being the only Child. But, my Inclination leading me towards travelling, occasioned perhaps by some of my School-Fellows, who had been at Sea, and described to

me the Pleasure of seeing foreign Parts, I was never easy until my Mother granted my Request, that I should go Abroad.

Accordingly, in the Year 1738, with her Consent, I went a Voyage for Trial from Dundee to Norway , with one Captain Davidson, who, upon my Return Home, would fain have had me bound to him; but, being ask'd the Question afterwards, he refused, for what Reason I know not to this Day. Unfortunately for him, however, I remember, the next Voyage he went, being bound for London, he was cast away off Yarmouth, and every Person on Board unhappily perished, having many Passengers on Board, besides the Ship's Crew.

I failed afterwards from Leith to Norway , in which Voyage we suffered great Hardships, being obliged to cut our Masts away to save the Ship, and Lives on Board.

In the Year 1741 I came to London , having Recommendation to Captain George Mackenzie , then first Lieutenant of the Hampshire Man of War , of 50 Guns, I was admitted on Board. In this Ship, in the Year 1743, having taken several Prizes, Mr. Mackenzie was ordered to command one of them, and took me with him, and losing the Men of War, we were taken in the Prize by the Spaniards, tho' not without a Broadside: Nor should we have been taken, but that we had no more than 8 small Guns, and 12 Hands in all; they having 24 Guns, and 200 Men and upwards.

The Spanish Privateer soon met with more English Vessels, and took them; one of which being come from Oporto, loaden with Fruit, was ransomed, the Master of her remaining a Pledge for a Sum agreed for. In this Vessel I came Home to England , after many Difficulties encountered, being then the Beginning of the French War.

Upon my Arrival, I enquired for Captain Mackenzie, and was informed he was come Home, and was now Lieutenant of the Strafford Man of War , then lying at Chatham ; to which Place I went, and met the above Gentleman, and he was glad to see me, supposing till then that I had been dead. Soon afterwards he left that Ship, and I went with him on Board the Defiance ; then he being made Commander of an armed Ship, he had me again with him by an Order of the Lords of the Admiralty. When I removed from thence to his Ship, I was made Midshipman , and was afterwards removed to the Tavistock Man of War , where I continued near two Years in the same Birth of Midshipman. From thence I was removed to the Inverness with that brave and worthy Gentleman, from whom I never had an angry Word, by whom I was beloved, and by all my Superiors, as well as Inferiors.

The War being then at an End, I did not chuse to fail any longer in the Navy, tho' I had many good Offers made me; so I came to London , and soon got acquainted with Company, tho' none but better, or as good as myself. And I defy the whole Worldto upbraid me with keeping bad Company, as I find in my present Circumstances has been reported of me.

The Crime for which I suffer is just no more than I deserved, tho' Necessity drove me to it; nor was my Inclination any Thing otherwise than to have paid the Sum I received with Interest and Honour, as soon as ever it was in my Power; whatever otherwise may be thought of the Matter.

I dye in Charity with all the World, praying God to forgive me; and I hope, thro' the Merits of Christ, to be forgiven of my heavenly Father, for the Sin that has brought me to this shameful End, and all other Sins of my Life; May my Fate be a Warning to others, and I could wish no Man would ever again attempt a Crime so atrocious in itself, and its Consequences; as it is doing great Injustice to others, and bringing certain Ruin on a Man's own Being in this World, if not in that which is to come.

Signed WILLIAM BROWN .

From my Cell in Newgate , 27th of July, 1751.

2. ROBERT GLASCOW , aged 28, was born at Chippen Ongar in Essex , and was bred a Butcher . His Father, he says, was a Man in good Circumstances, and settled the rest of his Children happily in the World: But this unhappy Man being of a stubborn, self-willed Temper, 'twas a difficult Task to correct the Malignity of his Disposition at Home, so his Father thought proper to place him out Abroad to a Butcher.

Glascow did not relish a Life of Slavery, nor would he endure the least Fatigue without murmuring; so that his Master could have no great Good of him, and the Behaviour of the Servant occasioned several and frequent Complaints of the Master to the Father, who partly with Menaces, and partly with Rewards and Promises, prevailed on his Son to have more Regard to his Master's Service for a Time, and more careful of his Business.

With much ado he served his Time out, and had a handsome Beginning afforded him from his Father, to set up for himself; but this he was vile enough to squander away in Conversation and Company of lewd Women, and associated with such as were famous for singular Acts of Infamy. To these he joined himself, when all was thus foolishly expended, and began to infest the Publick.

His first Exploit was robbing a Stage-Coach upon the Bow Road , just coming to Town in the Dusk of the Evening. He took from the Passengers all their Money, &c. and made off with the Booty undiscovered. He robb'd the same Night a single Gentleman, whom he met with in the same Neighbourhood, whose Money he demanded; the Gentleman having a Sword on attempted to draw; but Glascow, alarmed at this Intent, gave him a Blow on the Head with a Hanger, which knocked him down, and gave the Villain an Opportunity to do as he pleased; so he rifled him, and went off theGround, leaving him to take Care of himself. This Robbery and Ill-treatment the Gentleman could not easily put up with, and it made some Noise in the Neighbourhood; so that Glascow found it necessary to betake himself for Shelter to the Country; where he could not forbear his old Tricks, but many Times made free with a Sheep, or a Lamb, and disposed of it in the neighbouring Villages. When he thought the Hurry was over, he came again to Town, and, he says, he returned to his Business, getting Employ in Newgate-Market , and St. James's Market ; but neither Neighbourhood liked his Behaviour long, so that his Stay in either was but of short Duration. Business he did not like, and so he return'd again to tread the old Paths.

The first Thing he now attempted upon his second Adventure, was upon a Mercer's Shop, which he and three Accomplices had set their Eyes upon, which they broke in the Night, and carried off several Pieces of Silk.

Next a Master-Taylor fell into his Way, whose going into the Country, a little Distance from Town, he and his Companions got Notice of. Their Intelligence was, that he was about to carry several Suits of valuable Cloaths to some Gentlemen of Fortune there; they knew the Way he was to go, and so lay in Ambush for him in a convenient bye Place; from whence as he passed along they started, and robb'd him of three Suits of Cloaths, which they carried off. Coming a little to the Return of his Reason, and fearing the Inconstancy of Fortune, and that sooner or later, if he continued in these Practices, he must fall a Victim to the Law, he takes himself away to Portsmouth , or Chatham , and entered himself on Board a Guard-Ship ; but his bad Behaviour soon drew upon him the Hatred of the Ship's Crew, and he was soorn'd and rejected by all. Afterwards he was turn'd over to another Sloop of War, where he shortly became noted; and for several Offences in these two Ships he received proper Discipline, till quite tired of such a Wretch, and his Villainies, he was turn'd over to the Invincible Man of War . Here he is said to have behaved somewhat better than usual, (for Fear of more Discipline I suppose) and coming to Portsmouth , left the Ship, and came up to London about 6 Months ago.

Since which he was a third Time followed his old wicked and abandoned Way of Life; tho' he pretended he had been employing his Time at Work upon the Quays, and on Board of Ships in the River. However, he was very fairly catch'd in this Trap, the Fact upon which the Indictment was founded, for which he was justly convicted and suffered. A hardened and abandon'd Wretch as ever did suffer, and what he did suffer was no more than what he most righteously deserved. The Fact he suffered for, was robbing Mr. Weeden, and his Wife, which in the general he could not deny, but would use Prevarication about it, almost till his last Moments were come.

3. RICHARD HOLLAND , aged 29, was born in London , but in what particular

Parish he either knew not, or, if he did, would not mention. His Parents were not in a Condition to give him Education, or, if ever he had any, his dissolute Way of Life had quite worn out all Appearance of it; being very ignorant, and of Consequence obstinate. When he was grown up fit to be put to a Trade, he might have been handsomely provided for; but having a natural Propensity to Vice, and being of a sullen Cast of Mind, he rejected all kind Offers made him, so he staid at Home with his Mother in Idleness till she was quite tired of him, and could nor would afford him any farther Subsistance, as he was of Years to get his Living, if he had any Regard to Industry and Honesty, and the Advice of his Friends; but he was already incorrigible, and deaf to all Admonition, which seemed rather troublesome to him, than any Ways tending to his Advantage. An unhappy Way of thinking, which too many of our Youth now-a-days are too apt to stumble into.

However, at last Holland took it into his Head to go Apprentice to a Waterman ; but not being over honest, even at that early Time of Day, his Master was obliged, after some few Months, to turn him adrift: Tho' he says of himself (as Men often do when they can hold their Place no longer) that he did not like his Master's Service, and so he turn'd off his Master, not his Master him.

In his early Days he grew very loose and wicked, and soon got among Pickpockets and Thieves. The first Thing he attempted, was the picking a Gentleman's Pocket of a Handkerchief, which he did with Success, and at length became as errant a Thief as any of them all. He committed several Robberies in Company with many that have gone to Tyburn before him, by which he got a deal of Money, &c. but light come light go, and whatever he got was soon gone, as the lewd Women of the Town were his chief Delight. Sometimes he was dress'd as gay as might be, and sometimes like a dirty Scoundrel as he was.

And now there were so many Accusations laying over his Head, as made him begin to be afraid of the Vengeance of the Law; and reflecting how he might avoid the impending Danger, he found the most adviseable Way would be to betake himself to the Sea , which Resolution he accordingly did put in Practice; and, he says, he has been Abroad in the East and West-Indies for the best Part of twelve Years last past. The three last Years of his Service at Sea, he says, was in the East-India's Service , and it is about two Years since he has been at Sea, all which Time has been employed in the utmost Excesses of Wickedness and Villainy, not with standing upon his Return to London he had wrote to his Friends in the most submissive Manner, promising an Amendment in his future Conduct: However, as they would take no Notice of him, unless he would bring Certificates of his good Behaviour, he found that would be a troublesome Task, if at all to be done, and did not attempt to undertake it; and as he brought no Certificates, no Notice was taken of him by his Friends, so he resolved once more to have Recourse to his old Practices.

His repeated Infestations upon the Publick soon rendered him famous; and he had great Luck to have reigned so long as he has done, since many of his Companions have been hang'd within this two Years, and he was as forward and daring as any of them all. For Instance;

Holland was concerned with Lewis, since executed, and Stanton, since transported, and others, in robbing the Lady Albemarle and Lord Bury. A desperate Attempt! And Holland was the Man that got into the Coach, and took the Lady's Watch, &c. which himself sold, with two others, to Cordoza the Jew.

Holland was concerned with Smith, Webb, and Ben the Coal-heaver, all three since executed, for robbing Henry Smith on the Highway.

Holland was concerned with Henry Bourne in that Robbery for which he was executed.

Holland was concerned with Anthony Whittle in breaking the House of James Hawkins , for which Whittle was executed.

Holland was concerned with James Field , executed in February last, in many Robberies, with divers others, and was in Ecklin the Evidence's Information at that very Time.

Holland was concerned with James Saunders , executed in October last. Saunders and his Wife, in Men's Cloaths, together with Holland, used frequently to go upon the Highway, whose Wife was Sister to Saunders's. They were used to get themselves well dressed, and go down to Billingsgate ; and making Enquiry what Passengers were going down next Day to Gravesend or Chatham, would slip down in a Boat before them, and rob the People before they came to an Inn at Gravesend; or if they did not succeed here; they would waylay them as they passed from Gravesend to Chatham in the Stage-Coach. And this Method they practised for about two Years together, and made no small Advantages of it.

Holland was concerned also with one Furlong, executed some Time since at Maidstone.

And now the Hand of Providence began to fall upon him, and he was taken into Custody upon an Information, and committed to the New Jail , Southwark ; but getting admitted an Evidence, he was taken down to Kingston in March last, to give Testimony against an Accomplice, tho' without Success; for not being credited upon his Oath, the Jury acquitted the Person he swore against, and he was brought back to his former Lodging. Some Time after he was removed to Newgate , to give Evidence against another, who was to be tried at the Old Bailey ; but no Prosecutor appearing, both he and the Prosecuted were discharged by the Court in April Sessions last: So once again he had his Liberty, but could not help making a bad Use of it. He never thought of returning Thanks to the Almighty for so great a Deliverance; his many Escapes from the Hand of Justice had no Effect upon him, but he went and joined himself to a desperate Fellow, one of his former Accomplices, and shewed greater and more abominable Inclinations to

Wickedness and Vice than ever he had done before, if such a Thing might be supposed. He engaged now in most dangerous Robberies, sparing neither Sex, shewing no Tenderness to young or old, till Providence would no longer permit him to carry on his diabolical Practices; but in about the Space of six Weeks after he was discharged, he was taken into Custody at the Fox in Drury-Lane (a most notorious Nest!) for the Robbery committed on Henry Debbins , and committed again to Newgate ; of which Fact he was deservedly convicted. He appeared a most hardened obdurate Man all the Time after, till about a Day or two before his Execution, when he was brought to the shedding of Tears, and owning that he had been most wicked and profligate, justly deserving the Fate that befell him.

4. GARRET LAWLER , aged 26, was born in Dublin , in the Kingdom of Ireland . His Father was a Butcher , and a Man of good Business and Reputation, who made it his Care to train up this unhappy Youth from his Infancy in the Ways of Virtue and Love of Honesty, and gave him the Advantages of Education, neceessary for one designed to be a Tradesman, to make his Way in the World. When he came of Age fit to be put Abroad, his indulgent Parent gave him Choice of what Trade he was inclinable to follow. He was a Youth naturally of a good Disposition, and submitted to his Father to make Choice for him, as the better Judge. He was his darling Son, and being unwilling to venture him out of his Sight, he recommended his own Business to him; and accordingly he was bound Apprentice to his Father for seven Years. For the first three Years he behaved very well, and was early and late in reaping the Advantages of honest Industry; so that he encreased the Business by his Diligence and good Behaviour.

However, after a Time, upon some Resentment he had taken against some of his Neighbours, he had Recourse to unlawful Means of being revenged; upon Complaint of which, Warrants were issued out against this unfortunate Youth, he being represented as a Person dangerous to the publick Safety. Accordingly he was taken into Custody, and committed to Newgate in Dublin , where, at the same Time, there happened to be a notorious Set of Sharpers confined, whom he contracted an Acquaintance with, and who became, perhaps, the Motives of his breaking thorough the Fences of all Honesty and Virtue. They communicated their different Arts to him, so that he only wanted an Opportunity to carry his instructions into Execution. His poor Father, all this while upon the Rack for his Son's Welfare, was indefatigable in procuring Bail for him, which he shortly effected, and restored him to Liberty; but at the next Sessions he was indicted, and obliged, by the Verdict given against him, to remain in the said Jail for six Months. This Affair cost his Father a great deal of Money; he grew daily more uneasy in his Mind, was quite dejected for his darling Son's Misfortune, and contracted a Disorder that shortly put an End to his Life. Words can scarce paint the Son's Griefupon this Occasion; he was for some Time inconsoleable, till, by the Persuasion of some Friends, he was prevailed on to cease his useless Moans.

As soon as he got his Liberty, having gone through the six Months Imprisonment, he resolved to quit his native Country, and so he embarked for Liverpool . In a few Days after he landed there, he engaged at Play with a Gentleman, and (as there were few more expert at all Sorts of Gaming) won a considerable Sum of Money. Here he went on Board a Privateer, and continued in her till he came to London . He was a good sprightly young Man, and might have been a useful Member of Society, had he betook himself to good Company, instead of which he met with some of his former Fellow Prisoners, who farther corrupted his Principles, and led him into such Excesses as obliterated every Thought of Virtue in him. And now he entered upon Enterprizes that led him on to Destruction, and by the Allurements of his Companions he was prevailed on to go a House breaking.

And the first Expedition he entered upon, was in Bloomsbury-Square , where they found a convenient House for their Purpose, which they entered with great Facility. When they had sufficiently rumaged the said House, and as they were just going off with their Booty, three or four of the Watch happening to come by, and seeing the Door open at that unseasonable Time of Night, put themselves in Readiness to receive the People that should come out; they soon saw a Number of well-freighted sturdy Fellows pushing their Way out in some Confusion; the Watch ordered them to surrender, whilst they, endeavouring to send the burthened People off, attacked the Watch with vast Fury, and forced their Way quite through them; but in the Pursuit Lawler got so desperate a Wound over the Head, that it had near deprived him of Life; however, two of his Friends came Time enough to his Assistance, beat off the Pursuers, and carried him and their Booty in Triumph Home.

In a short Time after, when he was able to go Abroad again, he, together with one of his Associates, met two Gentlemen well dress'd, whom they robbed of their Watches, Rings, and Money, to a pretty handsome Amount.

The next Attempt was made in the Strand , where he stopt a Coach, which he also robbed of a considerable Booty, and got clear off; and various other Robberies and Burglaries, too tedious to mention, he had a Hand in. Besides his Acquaintance in the nightly Expeditions, there was scarce a Day but he made Money at sharping, and taking in People, at the Game called Old Nobb; and he carried on this infamous Way of Life till Harpur was rescued from the Gatehouse, without being detected; but one of his Accomplices making a Discovery, impeached him in his Information. This he had timely Notice of, and provided for his Safety by going to Ireland . He was not long in Dublin when a Hue and Cry pursued him, and he, together with some others, was apprehended, and committed to Newgate in Dublin , and in some Time after transmitted to London , in October, 1749.

In December Sessions following he was indicted for a Burglary on the House of Adam Steward s; but Bowen (another Gatehouse Rescuer, and an Accomplice) being the only Evidence to affect him, the Jury thought proper to acquit Lawler.

He was a second Time indicted for breaking and entering the House of John Jones , but the Evidence being the same, and no other, he was also acquitted of that Charge. Besides, upon these two Indictments, Lawler had two Persons to depose in his Defence, that he was, at the Time of these Robberies being committed, viz. Dec. 1748, a Prisoner in the Marshalsea Prison , in Dublin . But one of them, who went by the Name of Laurence Savage , was taken into Custody as soon as the Jury had given in their Verdict, on Suspicion of robbing a Person of a Watch upon London-Bridge , October 18, 1748. This Laurence Savage proved afterwards to be Garret Lawler 's own Brother, Laurence Lawler , who, in January Sessions, 1749, was indicted for the said Fact, convicted, and executed the February following.

Garret Lawler was afterwards tried in March Sessions, 1749, with seven others, for the Rescue of Harpur out of the Gatehouse, committed for privately stealing General Sinclair's Watch, as he was going into Leicester-House; and being convicted, Judgment was then respited; but at the End of April Sessions 1750, received the Judgment of the Court to be branded in the Hand, which was accordingly done upon him and the other seven, and they were ordered to be imprisoned a Year.

In April 1751, Lawler was discharged and went away from Newgate with Masterson, upon their former evil Ways. Not long after he was taken by the Watch, and some Soldiers in the Strand , near Somerset-House , and being carried before Justice Lediard, were committed to the Gatehouse, on the Oaths of several Persons, for assaulting them with Hangers, and on Suspicion of committing Street-Robberies, May 19th, 1751. He was also detained on the Oath of William Couty , as above, and was convicted of the said Offence; and suffered accordingly the deserved Punishment due to such Crimes.

He behaved for the most Part without any great Concern, and on the 23d of July, a Person came into the Press-Yard to see him and Masterson, who thought he had been robb'd by them. After some Time he put the Question to them, but they denied the Fact; upon which the Man was so forward as to tell them, he was sure, 'twas them that robb'd him, and he could swear to them. Lawler hearing that, did no better nor worse, but took up a Bottle, and gave him a Blow on the Head, which laid him flat on the Ground. This plainly shews the same wicked Spirit still remained with him, to do Mischief, as long as he had Opportunity so to do, and argues how necessary it was that such a Wretch should be taken away from civil Society.

5. THOMAS MASTERSON , aged 24, was born in Dublin , in the Kingdom of Ireland , his Father was a Peruke-Maker , not in Circumstances to give

him much Education, and all he could do for him was to instruct him in his own Trade. This did not agree with his Disposition, and at a very early Age he got loose from his Father. Having thus thrown himself on the wide World, with little to subsist on, Company-keeping soon put away what he had; which not being of the better Sort of People, they soon taught him how to get more. However, in a little Time after, having by Ways and Means procured as much Money as would buy him tolerable Cloaths, and defray the Expences of his Passage, he set fail for Parkgate . Arriving there, he travelled to Coventry , and hired himself to a Peruke-Maker, who treated him very well; and here he might have lived happy, if his natural Propensity to Evil had not led him away; but first he robb'd his Master, and making his Escape came to London .

He was not long inactive here, but soon fell into such Company as he looked for, and began regularly first with picking of Pockets, and was noted for it, before he proceeded to Sharping, or House-breaking, in which of late he excelled most of his Associates. And tho' he went upon these Expeditions, yet till within these few Years, scarce any one imagined he got his Living as he did; being always well dress'd, and every Thing about him seemingly bespoke the Gentleman. At length he was committed to Newgate , for stealing Linen, and Handkerchiefs, and received Judgment of Transportation; but the Ship he was put on Board not clearing the Land's End, e'er it sprung a Leak and sunk, he, with a few more, with much ado, saved their Lives.

He returned to Town, and kept private for some Time; but the same Itch to Wickedness still remaining in his Blood, with two chosen Companions he broke and entered a Dwelling-house in Soho-Square , and robb'd it of Goods to a considerable Value. Flush'd with this Success, he resolved to pursue the Game, and shortly after in the Night ran down a Gentleman in Fleet-Street , whom he robb'd in like Manner of what he had about him. Several other Robberies and Burglaries he had a principal Hand in, besides resorting to all Places of publick Diversion; so that he made very great Booty, and got a deal of Money.

In this Manner he went on for several Years; and being a Favourite of the common Women of the Town, never wanted Occasions of squandering his ill-got Treasure; yet notwithstanding he has been charged with several Robberies within twelve Months past, he found Means to gain an Influence over those he had injured, otherwise his Fate had not been deferred so long as it was.

Masterson was committed to the Gatehouse , and afterwards brought to Newgate , charged with breaking and entering a House in Drury-Lane , and stealing a Quantity of black Silk, &c. August 1, 1750. Masterson and three Women were indicted for this, and tried at the Old Bailey , but the Prosecutor would not positively swear to the Goods, tho' some of them he owned had been Years in his House; so they were acquitted for Want of his speaking the Truth, and whole Truth, to compleat

his Evidence. Why he would not swear positively, it is generally believed might thus be accounted for; viz He was burnt in the Hand, and the excessive Grief and Pain of it so hurried him, that he scarce knew what he was about; accordingly he and the others were discharged, and returned to their former Works.

January 22, 1750, he and Clark met a Gentleman near Drury-Lane , and picked his Pocket of his Watch; Clark had the Watch, whom the Gentleman pursued with his Sword drawn, and, in the Heat of Passion, might have run him thorough, perhaps, had he not been too nimble for him; however, they were both taken upon Account of this Robbery, and committed to Newgate . In February Sessions last there was a Bill found against Clark for stealing the Watch, and against Masterson for receiving, but some how or other the Prosecutor did not appear; however, the Prisoners being known to the Court, they were not discharged, but ordered to remain till April Sessions, in Hopes that then the Prosecutor might appear; but being out of the Way they were acquitted for want of Evidence. How this is to be accounted for I leave to the Reader.

Just after this Sessions Lawler was to be set at Liberty after his Year's Imprisonment, for assisting to rescue Harpur: Accordingly he was once more set free, when Masterson and Clarke waiting at the Goal Door, received him with open Arms, and away they went together. They had scarce been a Month out of Goal, when it pleased God to put a Stop to their mad Career, and to bring them once more to Account: For on May 26 they assaulted and robbed Mr. Couty, and being taken and committed to the Gatehouse , and removed to Newgate , they were deservedly convicted last Sessions, and suffered Death accordingly.

One would think the many Escapes this Youth had, might have persuaded him to think of some other Way of Life; but hence 'tis plain, that when once these poor unhappy Wretches have entered among these Disturbers of the Peace, and Destroyers of the Property of the People, nothing can put an End to their Wickedness, but what puts an End to their Power of Action.

6. DANIEL THOROWGOOD , otherwise Dan the Baker , was born in Dublin , of poor, but industrious Parents, who, tho' they gave him no Education, took care to bind him Apprentice to a Baker , as soon as he was fit to go Abroad. He served his Time very well, and continued to work Journeywork at his Business, and got an honest, tho' bare Livelihood thereby, till he came to London about six Years ago.

After he came to London he was taken into Employ by some of his own Trade, and worked for several Persons in different Parts of the Town. He is said to have behaved for some Time like an honest, industrious Person, till getting into the Parish of St. Giles's he grew a little loose, and as he became more acquainted with the idle and profligate, (too many of which People infest that Neighbourhood) he in Process of Time became such a one as they were.

And now there was scarce any Wickedness or Mischief that he was not ripe for. He had given over all Thoughts of Business, he says, and having a much easier Way of getting Money, he resolved to stick to it, never considering the Consequence that must one Day ensue. Lewd Women were his constant Employment, while any Money remain'd to squander away upon them; and when all was gone they forsook him, till having gotten a fresh Supply by his Wits, he could again administer to their insatiable Wants.

He was now plunged in the Depth of Debauchery and Vice, but was scarce sensible of it, as he took Care to kill Time between one Excess or the other, and to keep off all Reflection. Various Robberies he has been concern'd in with different Persons, sometimes one, sometime another. He never stuck to one long for Fear of Discovery, nor ever wanted one or two to go upon an Errand with him. And

At last he laid a Snare to catch himself, having himself proposed the Night's Expedition, when he and Holland, together with Mark Chailes , the Evidence against them, robbed Henry Dobbins , June 11. Thorowgood was pretty active in the Affair of the Robbery, and having great Hopes to be made an Evidence one Day, went on the more boldly, and said, if it ever come to that he would afterwards leave off. However, Providence thought it not fit to give him that Opportunity; so owning the Justice of his Doom, he prepared to die resignedly, thro' Hopes of a better Life.

7. THOMAS CATCHPOLE , aged 50, was born near Dis in Suffolk , and lived with his Parents, who bred him up to Husbandry Labour , till he was about eighteen Years of Age, He then went from Home to Dis , and lived there in the Service of several Farmers, for the Space of about eighteen Years more, and was looked upon as a laborious and industrious Man. Afterwards he went to live with a Gentleman, who had great Regard for him, upon Account of his Diligence and Behaviour. Upon his being married, the Gentleman was so well inclined towards him, as to assist him with Money, &c. to the Amount of 300 l. So he took a House, and kept publick Business, and had his Share of it for some Time. After this, he unfortunately embark'd in the Smuggling, and had Losses one Way or another, broke up House, and became Servant to Goldsmith, who died in Newgate, and Carbold, otherwise Jiffling Jack, sometime since executed. He acknowledges having been concerned in the running and carrying Goods not Duty paid; but never would be persuaded to own the Fact upon which the Information was founded.

That he was proclaimed with others in Consequence of that Information in the Year 1746, he was sensible, and in Consequence of it was obliged to leave his House, and for the best Part of the Time since, he says, he has chiefly been lodged in Woods and Fields; and that in Winter Time he has many a Time drove the Cattle from where they have been laid down, and laid down in theirPlace, not daring to go Home for Fear of being taken by the Soldiers, or others. In such Distress, having a Wife and Children, whom he was not able to assist, he entered into Combination with others, in Manner as by his own Account follows.

1st, He says, that he, Thomas Fisher , John Cunningham , and James Allington , did rob one Mr. Vaughan of 30 l. Money that had been collected for the King's Tax.

2dly, He, Thomas Brooks , Francis Mayhew , Thomas Fisher , John James , and Thomas Cunningham , were the People that robb'd Mr. Josiah Stubben , as mentioned in the Proclamation.

3dly, He, John Cunningham , Francis Mayhew , Thomas Fisher , and Thomas Brooks , were the People that robb'd Mr. John Hempsted mentioned in the Proclamation, and the said Cunningham and Brooks were the People that fractured the Skull of Mr. Hempsted's Son.

4thly, He, James , John , and Thomas Cunningham , Thomas Fisher , Francis Mayhew , Thomas Fidget , Jonathan Barton , and Thomas Brooks , robb'd Mr. Fulcher. The Means of this being contrived, was; Fisher's Father was a Carpenter, and had been at Work in Mr. Fulcher's House, and having assisted in moving an Iron Chest, thought it was full of Money, and mentioned it in some Club, where the Son was present; he went and informed his Comrades; they shared 15 l. a-piece, besides the Share of some Effects, that was to come afterwards, when they were disposed of. The Man, he says, that is now in Ipswich Gaol as an Evidence, did clap a Pistol to the Head of the Maid Servant, and swore he'd blow her Brain out, if she did not let him enjoy her, which he forcibly did by that Means, in Presence of his Companions. And he further declares himself to be the Man that first hindered them from cutting Mr. Fulcher's Head off with an Axe, and afterwards cut him down, when his Companions had hung him up by the Neck.

He says further, that he had heard, and could be very certain in saying, that James Brooks , Thomas Brooks , Thomas Fidget , Francis Mayhew , T. Fisher, J. and T. Cunningham, robb'd the Reverend Mr. Hall; that James Cunningham was not there the first Time, but had Share of the Booty.

He says that he has heard, and can be very sure in asserting, that John and James Cunningham , Charles Blomfield , Jonathan Burton , and James Brooks , robb'd Madam Lemon; but who else was there he cannot tell with any Certainty.

He says he has heard, and can safely assert, that James and Thomas Cunningham , and Francis Mayhew , were the People that robb'd Mr. Ventris, as in the Proclamation.

He says that John , James , and Thomas Cunningham , T. Fisher, Francis Mayhew , and Thomas Fidget , were in a Field together belonging to Cunningham's Father, when James Cunningham or T. Fisher did say, Let us enter into Articles, to have no others than ourselves concerned for the future: And they accordingly did enter into certain Articles immediately, the Penalty of which was, to be

shot dead if ever they broke any or either of them; and then they immediately determined on the following Things:

First, That they go and rob the Rev. Mr. Hall.

Secondly, That they rob and plunder Mr. Sayer of Farsfield, and then rob Shelfhanger Church . And,

Lastly, They would stop, rob, and plunder the Collectors of the King's Tax when they should meet them on their Journey from Stradbrook to Norwich. When they had compleated this, they would some of them go over to Flushing, and purchase a Cargo of Goods, and return with them; which Goods were to be brought to some Place that his Majesty's Officers were not apprized of, there to be beach'd, as they term it, till they could get Horses and Conveniencies to carry them off.

He further says, that all the Robberies agreed upon at that Time have been since committed, except the last, in the most barbarous and outrageous Manner; and that they swore Damnation to their Souls if ever they would desist till they compleated them; and that he is sensible they will be effected, if proper Care is not taken to put a Stop to them. All this he says he was well acquainted with, and that James Allington and Francis Mayhew were not in the Information given by somebody in Suffolk. He was sensible of the heinous Nature of these Things, and desired that they might be made publick to the World, that he might thereby make some Atonement for his own Share in these vile Contrivances, and prevent further Mischief if possible. He died resigned to his Fate, in Hopes of God's Forgiveness.

8. EDWARD DIXON , aged 26, was born in the Parish of Barsdale , in the County of Suffolk , of Parents whose Circumstances did not admit of given him any Education: But tho' he had no Advantage this Way, yet Nature had supplied him with an artful Cunning, which rendered him capable of Scheme and Contrivance; he served his seven Years Apprenticeship faithfully in the Neighbourhood where he was born, and continued with his Master afterwards for some Time, who, besides his Butcher 's Trade, was somewhat of a Grazier , and fed Cattle for Smithfield Market. He generally every Fortnight or three Weeks brought up some fat Cattle to Town, and Dixon was his Assistant to drive them up for several Years; and afterwards having got together a little Money, he set up Business for himself in the Neighbourhood where he had served his Time. After a while he came up to London , and followed his Business down about Bow , near Stratford , and kept a moveable Trade from thence, and about the Suburbs of London , and in White-chaple ; from thence, not meeting with great Success in his Business, he was invited down, to Norwich , and accordingly went down, where he was acquainted with the aforesaid Goldsmith, Carhold, and others of the Smugglers, and became a Servant also to them, to ride the Country for them, and fetch home what Goods should be brought to their Market. But,

In the Year 1746, Dixon was also proclaimed, and from that Time was forced to skulk about from Place to Place, every Day afraid of being apprehended for an outlawed Smuggler. At length he was

taken, and being brought to Newgate , after staving off the fatal Blow as long as he could, was last Sessions tried at the Old Bailey , and convicted, and hath suffered accordingly.

Dixon and Catchpole had both laid a Scheme for making an Escape, but where prevented. About a Week before Execution, upon searching their Irons, they were found sawed all in two Parts, which occasioned them to be chained down to the Floor; upon which a Remose seized them, and they made Discovery of the whole Plot. From that Time they gave themselves over for lost Men as to this World, and Dixon shewed great Marks of Sorrow and Contribution for what was past.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

ON Monday the 29th of July, between Eight and Nine o'Clock in the Morning, Robert Glascow and Richard Holland in one, Daniel Thorowgood , Thomas Masterson , and John Thompson , otherwise Garret Lawler , in a second, William Brown , Thomas Catchpole , and Edward Dixon , in a third Cart, went to the Place of Execution from Newgate, thro' great Numbers of Spectators. When they were brought there, after they were all tied up, some Time was spent in Prayer, recommending their Souls to the Almighty's Favour and Protection, and they were turned off calling upon God to have Mercy on them, and receive their Souls. They all behaved as became their Circumstances.

Their Bodies were all delivered to their Friends in a particular Manner, occasioned by the Mob's crowding in upon the cutting down of one of the Bodies, which the Under Sheriff, who attended, insisted upon being dispersed and removed from about the pendent Bodies, e'er another should be cut down. It was accordingly so done, and then the Friends of such a one was called, and when they appeared the Body was cut down and taken away; and so on till they were all cut down and taken away; which prevented a good deal of Hurry and Disturbance.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

