THE Ordinary of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT Of the Behaviour, Confessions, and last dying Words of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday the 18th, of July, 1722.

AT the Sessions of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal Delivery of Newgate, which began at Justice Hall in the Old-Baily, on the 4th, of this Instant July, 1722. were Convicted of capital Offences Seven Persons, viz. Thomas Wakelin , John Morphew , Thomas Rice , Nathamel Jackson, John Molony , James Carrick , and Thomas Butloin . The two first receiving his Majesties Reprieve; the remaining were Order'd for Execution. The Sunday preceeding their Death, they had a Sermon Preach'd to them, from Rom. 7. 24.

Oh! Wretched Man that I am, Who shall deliver me from the Body of this Death?

FIRST, we consider'd the Words, as relating to the Body of that Death of Sin, which the Apostle is complaining of.

SECONDLY, With respect to the particular Death of great Sinners.

THIRDLY, What strong Reason all Men have to Exclaim like the Apostle, concerning the Force and Prevalence of natural vicious Inclinations, entail'd upon us by Adam, and encreased by the Gay prospects of the World, and Incitements of Satan.

FOURTHLY, The especial Reason that some there present had, to exclaim in such a manner against the Body of Sin, who so dismally felt the Force and Effects of Vice, being torn and hurried from Light and Life, in an ignominous Manner, even in the Prime of their Youth; fulfilling the Psalmists Words, That Sinners should not live out half their Days.

For the Application, we advised the Persons under Sentence of Death, to be greatly on their Guard, to labour earnestly to conquer the vicious Habits of their degenerate Minds (if that Work remain'd to be perform'd) since even St. Paul found those Inclinations so powerfully strong in him, as sometimes to bring him into Captivity, and to produce such an Exclamation as this. (2) If the Apostle found such Unhappiness in Life, such violent and uneasy Combats as made him desire rather to be dissolved and

to be with Christ, which is far better, then those who suffer to prevent Themselves and deter Others, from future Offences, should resign to the Hand of Justice, not repine at being forced from this turbulent World, interspers'd with Ease and Pain, Joy and Grief, good Fortune and Calamities; but rather, should endeavour to have the Apostle's indifference for the Things of this Life, and to be able to say, they chose rather to be dissolv'd and to be with Christ, which is far better. (3). Tho' they could not so much as attempt to deliver their Bodies from Death, without the utmost Absurdity, and the Guilt of, at least intending to shed innocent Blood, if any should oppose them, tho' their Duty to do so; yet it was in your Powers to deliver your Souls from Death, and a severer Death than this World Knows; being there dead for ever, to Prospects of Ease and Comfort; but alive forever to all Agravations of Woe and Torture.

The ACCOUNT of the Prisoners during their Confinement.

1. THOMAS BUTLOCK , alias BUTLOGE , which latter he said was his right Name, was found guilty of breaking open the Chest and Drawers of his Master Claud Langley in the House of James Dun , and stealing thence 27 Guineas, 4 Lewisdores, 9 Livers, &c. On the 20th of May last.

HE was upwards of 23 Years of Age; born about 30 Miles East of Dublin in Ireland , of Parents that took Care of his Education, tho' their Circumstances were Slender, having retreated from Cheshire, (the Place of their Birth) into that Part of Ireland, as Dependants on a Gentleman who remov'd thither. This Son was put Apprentice to a Vinner in Dublin, where, he said, he saw the transacting several ew'd things, which tend more to the corrupting the good Disposition in a young Man, than to the amending a vicious one. But he added, that his Esteem and Affection for his Master was so great, that when his Master fail'd in Trade, and came over to Chester, to live conceal'd, he was far from deserting his Fortune, that he came over to him very frequently, bringing small Supplies of Money, and acquainting him with the Affairs and Condition of his Family, which he left behind. He said, That when he could no longer follow his Master, he was put upon several Projects to obtain a Maintenance; but going into Ireland again, and the Wedding a substantial Man's Daughter, he retriev'd his Circumstances: But being sent for into England by a Gentleman belonging to the Law, he left Ireland with the Expectation of acquiring a good Place, by the Interest of that Gentleman, who was his Relation; and accordingly took Lodgings, but unfortunately in the House where Claude Langley likewise lodg'd; who thereupon askd him to serve him, which Butloge assented to, till his Relation could obtain the Place for him.

He added, That it was by no Means Necessity that infused into his Mind the Thoughts of robbing this said Gentleman, nor did it ever enter into his Head, he said, till half an Hour before he committed the Fact, but being alone, his Master at Church, and all the House silent and private, as he sat looking on the Drawers, the Thought entred into his Mind; immagining at the same Time, that as his Master-

Claude Langly spoke bad English he should not easily be convicted if taken; and as he must suddenly set out for France, he, (T. Butloge) could easily abscond till he was gotten beyond Sea, and then could in security regale upon the Spoil he had taken: For which end, he went, he said, to Chester; because he was most desirous of appearing Great where he was most known.

This, and much more, he mentioned. As to his Behaviour, while he lay under Sentence of Death, he seem'd very Grave and Sober in his Carriage; very easy at the Consideration of Death, saying he expected nor desired nothing less; and added, That he wonder'd at those Men who could attempt to escape from Justice, at the Expence of Blood, and by aggravating the Offences of robbing by the Sin of Murder.

2. NATHANIEL JACKSON , was condemned for assaulting Richard Dennit between Pancras and Hamstead, and taking from him two Shirts, a Coat and Wastcoat, six Lemons, some Human Hair, 13d. in Money, &c. about eleven at Night, on the 20th of June last.

This Prisoner said he was above 30 Years of Age; a single Man; Born at Doncaster in Yorkshire . That his Father took Care of his Education during his Life, but dying when he was Young, he flew out into Extravagance; but being bound to a Silk Weaver in Norwich , he was in some Measure restrain'd; till finding that too uneasy, and too great a Check, for his wild Inclinations, after serving 3 Years he ran from his Master. After this, (he added) that instead of purchasing some Place with the Furtune his Father bequeathed him, as his Friends advis'd; he went into the Army, and was for about four Years in Ireland , were he pursued most sorts of Debaucheries, with other Soldiers: He also said he was for some time a Trooper, but fighting a Duel with one of his Friends, whom he said he did not kill, but prodigeously hack'd and wounded him, he was turn'd out of the Troop, and lost the 15 Guineas which he paid to be admitted into it; but he asserted, that it was more on Account of the Officers Profit, than his Offence, that he was Broke.

After this, going Home to his Friend, who had the Care of his small Fortune, he lived in the Town with him, but in his House, being unwilling to submit to that regular and sober Life which his Brother requir'd; but chusing to lye abroad several Nights in a Week, and to converse with leud Women at vicious Houses; nor could any Checks or Remonstrances of his Friends prevail upon him to forsake those Courses which his Natural Inclinations so strongly prompted him to.

He further said, that tho' he was in the utmost Want and Extremity when he committed the Robbery, (having idely squandered away the Money he at parting receiv'd from his Friends) yet he had no Intention to Rob, till he and John Morphew (whom he knew in Ireland) met with Nathaniel O-Brian in a Footman's Garb, their Acquaintance likewise in Ireland, who invited them to drink in the Camp in Hidepark, and after filling them with Liquor, and paying their Reckonings, told them how he fill'd his Pockets with Money, and if they were Men, and dare walk toward Hamstead, he would put them into the same Method of supplying their Purses. Adding, that O-Brian, (escap'd) would have cut the Throat of Dennit, after they had robb'd and stript him, had not he and Morphew prevented the Murther.

He appear'd extreamly grieved and very penitent for the many Offences of his Life, and expresses a sensible Concern for the Disgrace his Death would bring upon his Family, and for the Affliction it was to his good and religious Friends; adding that a Letter sent to him from his Brother, when he left London, having found his Endeavours to save him was in vain, and which Letter he read to me, had more ct his Heart, if possible than a Thousand Deaths.

HE assured me, That, as I directed him, he spent all his Time below, in Prayer to God, and in Reading to the other Malefactors, especially to T. Rice, who was not able to Read; that he made the best Use of certain written Forms, proper for Men in his Condition, and frequently call'd upon the rest, to joyn with him in those Prayers. Before he died, he said, He earnestly desired to receive the Holy Sacrament, which he did, with much Devotion, and seem'd perfectly resign'd to this World, and desirous to enter into a far better.

3. THOMAS RICE , of St. Olave Silver-Street, was convicted of privately stealing out of the Shop of John Albright , two Gold Rings Value 38s. on the 27th of April last, being indicted also, for stealing from Thomas Tearl , a Silver Milk-pot, Value 27s. on the 18th of June last.

He was about 35 Years of Age, born of reputable Parents, who would have given him a tolerable Education, but that his Mind was unhappily in capable of receiving it; he said he was put Apprentice to a Waterman , but could not Settle a-right to that Employment; after which he kept a Brandy Shop , and could not easily turn his Mind to what was sober and regular; having his Sences in some Measure taken away, on Account of a Young Woman he was in Love with, who died the Day before he was to have marry'd her, and upon whose Grave he laid every Night, for half a Year together.

He could not Write or Read, which as some among them were Romans, he accounted the greater Misfortune to him. However, as he was able, he seem'd to use his utmost Efforts and Endeavours, in order to obtain another Life, as his Expectations were gone with Respect to this. He told me, he earnestly requested the other Prisoners to read and pray with him; and spent every Moment in suing for Pardon, for the various Sins of his Life. He acknowledged the Offence which he was convicted of, but said that he had resolv'd for some time, to retrieve his Life: The Estate that was fallen to him, would have put him in a Capacity of doing this: He added, had his Life been continued, as the Matter stood, he was only solicitous lest his Wife and Child should be defrauded of that Estate, which according to Justice and Equity, his Father should receive, and after his Death should bequeath to them, his Wife and Child.

When he came to dye, he lamented that certain Persons had so unaccountably infus'd into his Mind Expectations of Life, and had afterwards deceived him; but, he said, he hop'd he was not damned thereby, but that God would even yet accept him.

4. JOHN MOLONY , was Convicted of assaulting W. Young, Esq; in Little Queen-street, between 1 and 2 in the Morning, and on the First of this Instant July, and taking from him a Gold Watch, Value 50 l.

A Christial Snuff-box 3 l. a Sword 3 l. and 42 l. in Money; James Carrick stopping his Chair; and puting a Pistol into it, while Molony repeated Carricks demand, Your Money, Sir, do you triffle?

The Account that he gave me of himself, was that he was born in Dublin in Ireland was sent to Sea when Young, with the Queen's Letter; served in Spain, and was upon the Coasts of Sicily and about Messina when the War lay there; but their Ship being lost, he was call'd to Account with the other Sailers concerning the Ship. After this, being on board a Privateer, they had success in taking the Pirates, and acquired several Sums of Money, which had he been soberly inclined, he said, would have put him in a prosperous way.

He said also, that being order'd into England the Wages he receiv'd from the Ship, were insufficient to maintain him, so that having recourse to the Gaming-Houses, &c. he there became acquainted with several of his Countrymen, but denyed that he knew James Carrick above three Days before the Robbery, but as they danced and fenced together, at the House where they found one another, it was no wonder they soon became acquainted. He asserted that he was at some distance before Carrick and Carrol, when they committed the Robbery. He said that he was earnest in his Duty of Repentance, according to his Notions and Sentiments of Religion.

5. JAMES CARRICK , was also found Guilty of Assaulting William Young , Esq ; on the Highway, and taking from him a Gold repeating Watch, a Christial Snuff-box, a silver hilted Sword, &c.

This Prisoner was about 27 Years of Age, born in Dublin in Ireland , where his Father being a Gentleman, as having left off his Business, and being desirous of having his Sons the same, obtain'd for one a Commissioners Post, for a Another a Cornet of the Horse, and made this James an Ensign in which Capacity he serv'd his King, leaving Ireland when he was Young. He said he was a while in Spain , where with other Officers he indulg'd himself in various Extravagances which the Climate prompted him to; the Female Sex having a sort of Regard to him, on Account of the Briskness and Gaiety of his Temper. He added, that having gratifyed his Inclinations so far in Spain, he naturally followed the same Excesses in England, frequenting the Company of every leud Woman, whom he either liked, or could acquire any thing by.

He also said, That being reduced, notwithstanding the Assistance afforded him by certain Ladies of Pleasure, he became acquainted with Smith, his Country Man, and they engaged to venture to take a Purse on the High-way, Robbing afterwards with Butler, since executed, and Butler being apprehended, and informing against him, he with some Difficulty then escap'd, being made an Evidence against Butler, who intended to be Evidence against him. He said that his Friends being made acquainted with this, entreated him to return Home, and his Brother promis'd to meet him, and conduct him to Dublin, and there obtain a Place that would soberly maintain him; but having tasted of the Gaities of a different Life, he car'd not to be under the View and Restraints of Friends, so pursued his former Courses, on Bagshot-Heath ,

Finchley-Common , and Hounslow-Heath , &c. appearing commonly as gaudy in his Habit as Butler.

During the Time that he lay under Condemnation, he surpriz'd those who saw him or talk'd with him, by the Gaity of his Behaviour, teling the People, that tho' they paid Money to see him in Newgate, if they'd go to Tyburn, they might see him for nothing, and the like. No one could prevail with him to desist from the Company of certain Women he had delighted in, even immediately before his Death.

At the Place of Execution, he laughed and smiled upon all whom he there knew; gave himself genteel Airs in fixing the Rope aright about his Neck, and as he constantly took Snuff during the Prayers in the Chappel, so at the Tree he had continually some pretty Gesture or other when the People were silent and expecting of something from him. He said that the Sheriffs of London and Middlesex had made an Order that no Surgeon should touch his Body. But when I urgingly had him regard and consider whither he was going, he answer'd, that he had received the Sacrament according to his Way, and had prepared himself agreeable to his Opinion.

This is all the Account to be given of the MALEFACTORS, By

T. PURNEY, Ordinary, and Chaplain.

ADVERTISEMENT.

On Monday next will be Publish'd, the Second Edition of

THE Fortunes and Misfortunes of the famous Moll Flanders , &c. who was born in Newgate, and during a Life of continu'd Variety for Threescore Years, besides her Childhood, was twelve Years a Whore, five times a Wife, (whereof once to her own Brother) twelve Years a Thief, eight Years transported Felon in Verginia, at last grew Rich, lived Honest, and died a Penitent. Written from her own Memorandums. Printed and sold by W. Chetwood at the Cato's Head in Russel-street, Covent Garden; and T. Edlin at the Prince's Arms over-against Exeter Exchange in the Strand. Pr. 5s.

A Water that perfectly cures the Itch, or any Itching Humour, in a few Days, without necessity of Purging, or the dangerous Use of Mercury. Price 1 s. 6d. is only prepared and sold by A. Downing, Chymist, at the Crown and Ball in George-Court in St. John's-Lane by Hics's-Hall, near West-Smithfield. Where also may be had, the best Spirits of Scurvy-Grass, by Wholesale or Retale at 8 d. a Bottle. A most effectual Remedy for the violent Pain in the Teeth. Price 1 s. Also a most excellent Remedy for preserving the Teeth and clear them from the Scurvy.

