THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, Of the SIX MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Monday the 11th of NOVEMBER, 1751.

BEING THE First EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Honble Thomas Winterbottom , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER I. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.LI.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable JOHN BLACHFORD , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Justice LEE, the Honourable Baron CLIVE, RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall, in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 17th, Thursday the 18th, and Friday the 19th of October, 1750, and in the Twenty-fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign, ELIZABETH DAVIS was capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly. And,

By Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Hon. FRANCIS COKAYNE , Esq ; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Right Hon. the Lord Chief Justice LEE, the Hon. Sir THOMAS BURNET , Mr. Baron CLIVE, RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex, at Justice-Hall, in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 16th,

Thursday the 17th, Friday the 18th, Saturday the 19th, and Monday the 21st of October, in the Twenty-fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign, SAMUEL BACON , ALEXANDER BYRNE , EMANUEL CLARKE , WILLIAM HOLMES , JAMES MALLONE , FRANCIS MANDEVILLE , TERENCE McCANE , ELIZABETH MEADOWS , JOHN NEWTON , & WESTON RAKES , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

Byrne, Mallone, Mandaville, and McCane were of the Romish Persuasion, and were attended by a Gentleman of the Romish Church . Holmes and Newton, &c. were daily attending at Chappel, and behaved decently and reverently.

On Wednesday the 6th Instant the Report of the ten Malefactors was made to his Majesty in Council by Mr. Recorder, when he was pleased to order the six following, viz. Alexander Byrne , James Mallone , Francis Mandeville , Terence McCane , John Newton , and William Holmes for Execution on Monday the 11th Instant.

Elizabeth Davis , convicted in October 1750, for publishing a false, forged, and counterfeit Letter of Attorney, knowing it to be such , is respited till his Majesty's Pleasure shall be further known ; as are also Samuel Bacon , convicted last Sessions for robbing Mr. Brittle , near his own House on Muswell-Hill , of a Gold Watch, &c. Emanuel Clarke and Weston Rakes , for robbing Thomas Tipping on the King's Highway .

Elizabeth Meadows was not reported, having pleaded Pregnancy, and being found quick with Child.

1, 2, 3. William Holmes , John Newton , and Francis Mandeville were indicted, for that they, together with Jonathan Stevens , not yet taken, in the King's Highway, on Joseph Chandler did make an Assault, putting him in corporal Fear, &c. one Linen Stock, Value 2 d. one Silver Stock-Buckle, Value 3 s. one Pair of Metal Shoe-Buckles, one Pair of Knee-Buckles, one Guinea, and 4 s. and 6 d. in Monies numbered, did steal, take, &c. Sept. the 29th .

4, 5, 6. Alexander Byrne , James Mallone , and Terence McCane were indicted for robbing Benjamin Smart upon the King's Highway, of a Hat, Value 5 s. one Pair of Silver Shoe-Buckles, Value 5 s. one Metal Tobacco-Box, Value 2 d. and Nine Shillings in Monies numbered, July 30 .

1. William Holmes , aged 19, was born in Bishopsgate-street , of industrious Parents, tho' in no great Business, or Circumstances, yet by each others Labours they lived comfortably. Unfortunately, perhaps, for him, his Father died, when he was about twelve Months old; so he was left to the Care of a Mother, whose Fondness brought him up tenderly; and she kept him to School, at the Expence of the Produce of her own Pains and Industry, till he was about 10 Years of Age. About that Time she met with a worthy Friend, who found Means to provide, that the Boy might be taken off her Hands: And from this Time he was put into, and bred at another School, till of riper Years, he grew fit to be put out Apprentice. There he learned to read, write, and cast Accounts,

as is the usual Method to fit Youth to go into Life, and follow that which is good, unless the Depravity of their own Temper, or the Prevalence of evil Company induce them to pursue another Way of Life, which their Education was intended to guard them against.

In this unhappy Youth both the above melancholy Circumstances seemed to concur to work his Destruction as to this Life. He was a Youth of some Vivacity, tho' a certain Sullenness seemed to set upon his Brow, and he was impatient always of Reproof, which was frequently necessary, as he was always an unlucky one, and ready at all Manner of boyish Mischief.

About the Age of 15 Years he was put Apprentice to a Hot-presser and Dyer in Spital Fields : We don't find but that he served his Master with Industry and Faithfulness for three Years, and better; tho' even at that Time having somewhat too much Indulgence, which he knew not how to make a proper Use of, he was led to fall into little Scrapes at first, which, by frequent Use and Custom, drew him in to run much greater Lengths.

During this Time not any Charge or Suspicion of Dishonesty was alledged against him, so far as we have heard or found; but he began to grow less diligent in his Business, which occasioned Words, and he being yet of a Temper impatient of Reproof, took in Dudgeon what was said to him on that Occasion, and was about to determine upon leaving his Master. However, he bore with it for some Weeks, and staid in his Service, tho' he grew more uneasy every Day; for Occasions of Complaint against him encreasing, as he grew more negligent; of Consequence Reproofs grew so much the severer. He grew hardened under it, nor suffered it to take Place, and the more he was galled at it, the more uneasy he was, till he was out of the hearing of it. The Case with Holmes seems just the same as with most of those unhappy Creatures. When once they have gone on a while in evil Courses, nothing shall put a Stop to them, but what stops their Breath; but was greater Care taken to keep them to labour six Days, and to their Duty to God the seventh Day, the Case might have been otherwise, and many more useful Members of Society might have been brought up, who are cut off frequently in their Prime for Want of better Regulation.

His Negligence grew habitual, and every Call to Business disagreeable; his Service was no longer pleasing, nor would he at any Rate stay; but, as the Prodigal Son in the Gospel, left his Father rashly, and to his great Detriment and Grief after he was gone; so fared it with this unhappy Youth presently after he had left his Master. He soon spent what little he had, and Poverty and Starving stared him in the Face. What should he do? His wearing Apparel, and every Thing else next followed; being either pawn'd or sold, and he was left almost naked.

He did not say but that his Master had been used to behave to him as one in his Situation could wish a Master to do; and, he said often, he wished his Example might be a Warning to all Apprentices, how they throw themselves out of Business, and think to providebetter for themselves, than their Friends have done. With him it was all Caprice, and not Reason: The Infatuation of his own Humour, and unsteady Temper, took Occasion to remove him, about nine Months ago, from such Service and Duty, as, attended to, might in Time have made him a Man, and been a Means to carry him safe through the World.

But now Idleness had led him into the Company of loose and bad Men. All was gone; what should he do for more? He could not keep such Company long, without helping to pay the Expence of their Revellings. To dig he was ashamed, and was quite tired of Business. What he had sold his Goods for lasted not long: About this unhappy Juncture, who should fall in his Way, as an Engine of the Devil, to compleat his Ruin, but David Brown , otherwise Lowe , executed in October last; whom he met at a notorious Lodging House in Kingsland Road . David enquired of him, among other Things, what Way of Life he led, and how he got his Bread? To which Holmes readily replied, that he had but lately left his Master, and had sold and pawned every Thing, and knew not what Course next to take.

Upon which Davy perceiving his Necessity, and looking upon him as a proper Object for him to work upon, told him it was a Pity he should starve in a Country of Plenty. Go with me, says he, and do as I do, and Money shall never be wanting. I live well upon the Lay, and have every Thing at Command. We cannot be hanged more than once, and there's an End. This Way of Instruction, he had learned, it seems, from the Landlord, whose Favourite Davy had been above all those unhappy Wretches that ever used his House.

With some Reluctance at first, Holmes says, he consented; but it appears, that when he was once enter'd into the Practise, he was active and desperate as any other Person could be. Custom in sinning wore out, and effaced all Principles of Good; and Industry and Honesty being at an End, he began to be as abandoned as ever Wretch was of the Multitudes that have gone before him in the same Road.

David Brown and Holmes from this Time became sworn Brothers, and scarce any Thing was done by one, that the other had not a Hand in. Holmes had now his Mistress, and to provide for her and himself, away he goes with David into the Minories, and after seeking Prey for a while, met with a Person near a dark Alley, into which they hurried him, and Holmes was to shew how he could behave in such Attempts. He did so, and robbed the Person of about 9 s. swearing, with Pistol presented, he would blow his Brains out if he did not deliver quietly. David stood upon the Watch, and when Holmes came out, and told his Success, he commended him, saying, He would make a rare Hand in Time.

From thence they went together to Stepney-Fields , and robbed five different People singly, one after another, whose Booty, to the best of his Remembrance, he says, produced about 18 s.

What should they do then, but return to their Lodgings, ready at all Times to receive them, and carouse withthe Crew the House harbour'd; where they arrived, and passed the Remainder of the Night, and lay Perdue all next Day, playing the Tricks of the House, and at Night turn'd out again for more Prey. About Whitechappel , and the adjacent Places, they rambled the next Night, and committed several Robberies, which ended in the same Scenes of Riot and Debauchery. And, to be brief, so many were the Robberies they two, sometimes by themselves, and sometimes in Company with one or two more committed, that he with Horror reflected upon them; tho' he said, so many they had committed in about seven Months Time, and the Life he led so vile, that he could not bear them in Memory.

Holmes was besides concern'd with Holland and Thorowgood, executed on Monday the 19th of July last, in diverse Robberies about Stepney-Fields , Whitechappel , and Goodman's-Fields , and acknowledg'd that in their Company he had done great Injury to many People; but being generally in Liquor upon these Occasions of committing Street-Robberies, he could not recollect Particulars, but said he was also led into their Company by David Brown .

Some Time before September Sessions, Brown occasioned Holmes to be taken by some Thief-takers, but Holmes got the better of him then for a-while; and procuring himself to be admitted Evidence against him, Brown was convicted, and suffer'd accordingly, and Holmes was sent about his Business.

What shall he do now? he had proved himself a Villain, and scarce knew where to hide his Head. He says, he thought with himself what he should do as he went along the Streets, and at last resolved to go Home to his poor Mother, and stay there the Night he was at Liberty after giving his Evidence against Brown, that he might take Time to consider. The next Day he went to Field Lane , and took a Lodging: But he was not easy there, and from thence he removed himself to Church-Lane in Whitechappel , where he took a Lodging, and says he committed several Robberies between the End of September Sessions, which ended the 18th, and the Time he was taken, which was the 30th.

The Robbery of Mr. Chandler he acknowledges to have been principally concern'd in, for which he was taken at the Queen's-Head in Cable Street , commonly call'd Back-Lane , and convicted at the last Sessions. His Behaviour at first before the Justice was very audacious, and after Conviction, for a little while, he appeared with the utmost Unconcern; but as the Time drew near, and the Warrant for Execution was against him (tho' some Interest was made) he began to bethink himself of his approaching End, and, as far as I could see and judge of him, behaved in a very penitent Manner, and seem'd heartily sorry for his past evil Transactions.

2. James Newton , aged 29, was born in the City of Norwich , and lived there, with his Parents, till he was about 12 Years of Age. By that Time they were both dead, and he was left destitute of any Friend to take any Care of him. After some Time he took to the Sea, and was put Apprentice to a Master of a Holland Trader , whom he served several

Years, and afterwards having sail'd in divers Merchant Ships up the Streights , and to the West-Indies , before the Mast, he was pressed into the King's Service on board a Man of War, and says he has been a common Sailor in the Service about 12 Years, tho' about a Twelvemonth ago he arrived at the Honour of being Boatswain's Mate .

He says he sailed in a Vessel, about October last was 12 Months, which was to be on a Station about Milford Haven , and the Coast of Wales, and returned about two Months since During this Voyage he was in Disgrace somehow with the Mate of the Ship, from whom he met with rough Treatment. As he looked upon himself in the Capacity of an Officer, tho' of inferior Degree, he thought it was using him in a Manner not becoming a Brother Officer, which raised his Resentment so high, that he resolved to quit the Service as soon as he returned to the River Thames: Accordingly the Ship coming to Ports-mouth , as soon as he could set Foot on Shore, he says, he was as good as his Word, and set out for London directly.

He had some small Matter of Prize-Money to receive, but upon his Application for it, he found he had missed his Call, and being told that the Money was sent down to the Chest at Chatham, he was obliged to set down with the Loss of that Part of the Reward of his Labour.

He had a Lodging in Cable-street , Whitechapple he says, and worked hard in unloading of Colliers in the River, by which he gained an honest Livelihood. But Symonds, alias Spanish Jack, had got into some Acquaintance with him by drinking together, and prevail'd with him to come and lodge at the Queen's-Head , where he had not been seven Days, before he was concern'd in this Robbery. He says Spanish Jack proposed the Thing, and as they had been all drinking together, they agreed to go out, but that he never saw Holmes, or Mandeville, till that Night, nor was ever in a Robbery before. He seemed to behave well, and die very penitent.

3. Francis Mandeville , aged 24, was born at Waterford , in the Kingdom of Ireland . This unhappy young Man was Son of a Gentleman of Credit and Family, tho' not of Circumstances sufficient to provide for so numerous an Offspring as he had about him. However, it happen'd that a Lady, who had the Welfare of the Family at Heart, obtain'd the Father's Consent, and bred him up with her own Sons, intending to give him the Benefit of a regular Education. His Father, 'tis said, was capable of defraying the Expence of his Education, but not so well as the Lady; and besides, the pious Manner in which that worthy Lady brought up her Children, was no inconsiderable Motive to induce him to gratify her Request; he was not far advanced in Years, when he was placed under her Protection, and in a few Years made so great a Progress, that (had she liv'd) she was determined he should have had a compleat Education in the College of Lombardy; but it pleased the Almighty to call his generous Benefactress out of this World, which at once blasted all his Hopes, and render'd him an Incumbrance upon his Father, whose heavy Charge of Children

at this Time would not, with Justice to his Family, enable him to carry her Design into Execution: However, being willing to improve his late Advantages, he kept him closely at School, and sent him to Waterford , to have him instructed in the Art of Navigation; and having sufficient Interest to provide for him in the Navy , he entered him, as soon as he arrived at a proper Age, Aboard the Kent , one of his Majesty's Ships of War, as an effective Man, and provided him in a general Manner with every Thing necessary for him. His Father also had him warmly recommended to the Captain, who gave him all the Encouragement imaginable. His Disposition was naturally very affable, and by his courteous Behaviour he soon acquir'd the Esteem of his Officers, and distinguish'd himself as a Person of greater Activity and Diligence than any that went before the Mast. He was always indefatigable in discharging his Duty upon every Occasion that offer'd, and behaved with so much Courage and Resolution at the taking of a Spanish Privateer of forty Guns, that he was the first Man that boarded her Sword in Hand, and by his Example fired his Companions with so much Bravery, that they met with little or no Resistance after their first furious Onset. This was the first Engagement he had been in; and after he received the proper Encouragement from his Officers, he was ordered to remain Aboard the said Prize, where, by his prudent Management, he acquir'd a great deal of Money from the Crew, and carried her safely into the West-Indies; but he had some Dispute with one of the Lieutenants, who vow'd Vengeance against him as soon as the Ship set sail; and in order to avoid the Consequences that might attend his Malice, he prevail'd on the Captain to dismiss him, and to recommend him Aboard the Woolwich Man of War .

Having now received the greater Part of his Wages, and sold his Prize-Money, he appear'd in a genteel Character amongst his new Officers on Board this Ship. He had the good Fortune to be at the taking of several Prizes, which turn'd to his Advantage, and in twelve Months after he was turn'd over to another of his Majesty's Ships of War. Here he gave himself up entirely to drinking, and consequently neglected his Duty, so that his Officers were determined to punish his Disobedience, and with that Intent appointed a Court Martial to bring him to Punishment. In the mean Time he found Means to escape Aboard the Gibraltar , and went by the Name of Edmund Moroney ; but not liking his Usage, he left her, and enter'd Aboard the Otter Man of War , where he remained about ten Months, and behaved tolerably well. He was then turn'd over to the Culloden , where he regain'd his former Character, and was at the taking of several valuable Prizes. He landed at Spithead the 23d Day of September last, and came to London the 25th, and being perfectly unacquainted with the Ways of the Town, as well as ignorant of the Wiles and Intrigues of Mankind, he met with some of his former Ship-Mates, who first help'd him to squander away what he had left, and then introduced him into bad Company, which put him upon doing unlawful Acts, and work'd his Ruin as to this

World. He was a Party concern'd in this Robbery, by the Confession of them all, and died a Member of the Church of Rome , and behaved very decently under Sentence of Death.

Holmes, Newton and Mandeville were apprehended by some Thief-takers at the Queen's-Head in Cable-Street , and were betrayed by the Evidence and Accomplice, Spanish Jack, otherwise J. Symonds, at whose Instance and Encouragement they went out that Night. They had rescued him before from the Hand of Justice, and he finding diligent Search was made after him, took this Method to save himself.

4. Alexander Byrne , aged 23, was born in Dublin . His Father kept a Publick House, or Inn, in Cavan-street, and lived in Credit. And, had this unfortunate Youth made proper Use of the good Advice and tender Care of his Parents, he might have been a Credit to his Family, and a usefull Member of Society; but having a Tendency to Vice even from his Infancy, it was almost impossible to form his Mind to pursue any of those Instructions which tend to render Life happy and easy.

And notwithstanding his Father plainly perceived a Disposition, not without Difficulty to be conquered in him, yet he acted his Part, and gave him an Education much more suitable for a Gentleman, than a Person designed for Industry and hard Labour. Whilst in his juvenile Years, he made it a common Practice, instead of attending his School, to lurk after the Hostler in his Father's Stables, and took particular Delight in riding the Horses to Water. As he advanced in Age, so he contracted a Habit of Idleness and Vice, peculiar only to the most wicked and abandoned.

He first begun with filching and stealing Gloves, Whips, Spurs and Handkerchiefs, from his Father's Customers; and proceeded next to try his Fortune in the Streets. His keeping very irregular Hours induced his careful Parent occasionally to make a strict Enquiry into his Manner of living; and dogging him one Night through a Crowd, found him very busy about a Gentleman's Pockets; but taking no Notice, till he was fully perswaded of the Intention of his Son, he caught him pulling his Handkerchief out of his Pocket. Struck with Shame and Confusion at the Behaviour of his Son, he directly informed the Gentleman of the whole Matter, and returned him the Handkerchief, entreating the Favour of his Company to his House. The Gentleman went with him, and in his Presence he gave his Son the most severe Horsewhip Chastisement imaginable.

The Concern of the Father, and the Sorrow which the Son seemed affected and agitated with, moved the Gentleman's Compassion so far, that he suspended a Prosecution against him. However, the Father's Severity had quite a contrary Effect than appeared; for early the next Day the Son set off for the Country, not unprovided with Money, or proper Necessaries, and being a smart genteel young Fellow, he bent his Course to the County of West-Meath .

There, by his good Address, he introduced himself into a Gentleman's Service as his Butler ; and tho' his Countenance was innocent, and betrayed no

Manner of Guilt; yet there was so much Deceit under that Shadow, as rendered him, at last, a Pest to civil Society. He behaved extremely well at first in this Gentleman's Family, and his Affability shortly acquir'd him the Esteem of all his Fellow Servants; but this Dawn of Honesty did not last long, for he was by and by detected in playing Pranks, which must be disagreeable to every sober Family. He thought it best to avoid the Consequence, and so, taking French Leave, he made off with all imaginable Precipitation; not forgetting to carry with him, of his Master's Moveables, a Portion for himself. And besides, he was so wicked as to make his poor Fellow-Servants also suffer the Loss of their Goods.

After this he returned to Dublin , where he staid not long, but took the first Opportunity to go on Board a Ship bound for Park-Gate . When he came to London he got acquainted with a Set of notorious Reprobates in Drury-Lane , who not only exposed him to the Dangers arising from the Conversation of corrupted Women, but entered him also in their Lists, to plunder the Honest and Industrious.

He was under the Tuition of Dowdle, executed some Time ago, and the rest of his Gang, for some Time; and when they were mostly executed, he committed several Robberries alone, and especially one upon a Gentleman in St. Giles's , whom he attacked in the open Street, without paying any Regard to the Dangers that might ensue; and tho' the Gentleman made a noble Resistance, and gave him several Blows on the Head, yet, being a young Fellow of Activity and Strength, mix'd with rather a foolhardy, than true Courage, robbed him of a considerable Sum, and got away clear, notwithstanding the Hue and Cry pursued him two Streets Lengths. Relying much upon his desperate and undaunted Manner of cutting his Way in Case of a Pursuit, it was scarce possible to bring him to Justice, unless he was taken at a Disadvantage. M'Cane being a Townsman of his, and his intimate Acquaintance, he judged him a proper Person to act in Concert with; and M'Cane having a natural Propensity to Wickedness, was easily prevailed upon to join him in all his horrid Enterprizes.

His Scene of Action was generally held at Spital Fields , Whitechapel , and Ragg Fair , where he committed several notorious Robberies, but the Hand of Justice pursuing him, he was apprehended for robbing Benjamin Smart of nine Shillings, a Pair of Silver Shoe-Buckles, and a Tobacco-Box, for which he received Sentence of Death. During his Confinement he seemed very penitent, and died a Member of the Church of Rome .

5. Terence McCane , aged 23, was born in Dublin ; his Father kept a Publick House, and was always reputed as a very honest Man; but his Circumstances being very slender, he had it not in his Power to give this his only Son any Manner of Education, more than to qualify him with a Trade to enable him to get his Bread honestly; he therefore left it to his own Choice to determine what Business or Occupation he should like best to embrace, and according to his own Desire he was bound Apprentice

to a Carpenter , who happen'd to be an intimate Friend of his Father's. He was very diligent and careful during the Time of his being with this Master, and had the good Fortune not only to acquire his Master's Esteem, but also to leave him with an exceeding good Character. He staid at his Father's some Months after his Time was expired, and giving himself entirely to Idleness, and lurking about with whatever Company resorted to the House, he contracted the Habit of drinking so immoderately, that with much ado his Father could correct that evil Propensity which he saw growing so strong upon him; and in order to facilitate his Design the better, he was advised to give him proper Necessaries, and send him to London , under the Pretext of improving his Trade, and to place him under the Care of a Gentleman of his Acquaintance, who had Orders to inspect narrowly into his Conduct, and supply him moderately, until he got into Business. He was not long in Town before he associated with some of his Countrymen, who led him into various Scenes of Debauchery; and, as he was excessive fond of Cards, so he thought himself perfectly unhappy when he was not engaged at a Game of Cribbage or All-fours. His Itch after Gaming was an Inlet to, and the Cause of all his Misery, and he was obliged to have Recourse to the Pawnbroker almost every Day, until he had not the second Shirt to put to his Back; and no sooner he got his Week's Wages, than it was expended either at Cards, or some other of his Nocturnal Debaucheries and Revels. It was his bad Fortune to meet with an old Acquaintance and a Townsman of his, as before mentioned, who was vers'd in every Scene of Vice, and who put him upon Methods of getting Money by the most illicit bad Practices. It was in the Company of this seducing profligate Byrne that he first annoy'd the publick Tranquility, and it was by his alluring Temptations he was prevail'd upon to act in Concert with him, in robbing a Gentleman in Spital-Fields of a Watch and some Silver, which they carry'd off without being detected. Flush'd with this Success, they made a second Attempt upon a Fruiterer going along Whitechappel on his Return Home, whom they also divested of all the Money that he, with much Pains and Industry, got the same Day at Market. He was at last brought to condign Punishment, for robbing Benjamin Smart of nine Shillings, a Pair of Shoe-Buckles, and a Tobacco-Box. Whilst he was under Sentence, he behaved with great Resignation, seemed sorry for his manifold Crimes, and acknowledged the Justice of his Sentence; he died a Member of the Church of Rome .

6. James Mallone , aged 18, was born in Dublin , of very honest and creditable Parents; his Father dying when he was very young, and leaving a Competency in his Mother's Hands to give him a beneficial good Trade, he was, at a very early Age, bound Apprentice to a Callicoe, or stamp'd Linen Printer . His Father's Relations gave him all the Encouragement he could expect, and his Master's indulging Treatment to him, made him extremely happy all the Time of his Servitude. I must observe, that he seemed a Lad of a very gentle and

tractable Disposition; and it is said, with the greatest Acknowledgments and Gratitude he endeavoured to repay his Master's Civilities and Kindness, by an assiduous Application to his Business. When he had served some Time, his Master sent him to England , and recommended him to a Gentleman of the same Trade in London , with whom he lived some Time, and behaved so well, that his Master added greatly to his Wages; and being very fond of, and dutiful to his Mother, he sent her frequently small Sums of Money, which he saved out of his Wages by good OEconomy and Prudence. In short, his Conduct was so regular and good, that he left no Room for Censure, and his Carriage to all People, he held the least Connection with, so obliging, that he was look'd upon as a Person who merited a general Esteem; but having the Misfortune of becoming acquainted with Alexander Byrne and Terence McCane , he was prevailed upon, at their Instigation to go with them to a Publick House drink some Beer on the 30th Day of July last, and getting into Company with one Charles Wayland , a notorious Villain, and one of the former Accomplices, he pretended he had no Money in his Pockets, and insisted upon their giving him their Company to his Lodging, where his Credit was good; the unhappy Lad complied, and drinking immoderately, they work'd him up to attend them upon a Nocturnal Expedition, and supplying him with a Sword, they attack'd one Benjamin Smart in Catharine-Wheel-Alley in Whitechappel , and robbed him of nine Shillings, a Pair of Silver Shoe-Buckles, and a Tobacco-Box. Wayland turning Evidence on some Dispute betwixt him and Byrne, about dividing the Spoil, he was apprehended, and committed to Newgate , tried at the Old Bailey the last Sessions, and received Sentence of Death accordingly. He had an exceeding good Character given him in Court, and during his Confinement he behaved with uncommon Fervour in his Devotions, and seemed to be very penitent. He died a Member of the Church of Rome .

At the Place of EXECUTION.

On Monday last, about 9 o'Clock, William Holmes , John Newton , and Francis Mandeville , in one Cart, Terence McCane , James Mallone , and Alexander Byrne , in another, were conveyed from Newgate to the Place of Execution, attended by a large Number of Constables, and Multitudes of People. When they came there they prayed very fervently while they were tying up to the fatal Tree. After reading some Prayers, recommending their Souls to the Almighty's Protection, they continued praying, and calling on the Lord Jesus Christ to receive their Souls, till the Cart drew from under them.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

