THE Ordinary of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT Of the Behaviour, Confessions, and last dying Words of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn, on Monday the 24th, of September, 1722.

AT the Sessions House in the Old-Bayly, were condemn'd to Dye, (on Wednesday, September the 12th, 15 Men, and 3 Women); of these, Thomas Etheridge and Edward Raymond , for Robbing on the Highway; Isaac Hulman , for Horse Stealing; Margaret Fisher , for picking Daniel Macdonnel 's Pocket of thirteen Guineas, his Wages at Sea; Walker Green , for robbing her Mistress, M. Bugby, of two Gold Watches; (being three Men and two Women) received his Majesty's Reprieve; Anne Morris , condemn'd for the Murther of her Bastard Child; dyed in the Prison, after confessing she was deliver'd in a Celler of a Female Child, begotten by one she had often conversed familiarly with before, without such a sad Consequence; adding, that she believ'd it would have been a healthful Child, but she kill'd it as it came into the World, before she threw it down into the Vault; and that the Child-Bed Linnen she held in her Hands, to shew at her Tryal, was provided in Newgate, in order to bring her off. Sometime before she dyed she lost her Reason.

During the Time they lay under Condemnation, they did not behave themselves any way unseemly at the Prayers; and tho' Wilson, and Lincoln (I was told) were both careless in the Condemn'd Hold, none but Oxer was unruly, or ever once molested their Prayers: Wilson, indeed, pretended to question the Being of a God, and would talk as if there was no Futurity, believing he should dye like the Bruits, but never in a violent way, to the Disturbance of their Prayers in that Miserable Place. I was assur'd that Benjamin Shambler made it his Business to read to Oxer, and others, who were wholy Ignorant; and he told me, that he often excited Matthias Brinsden to joyn with him in Prayers, and Psalms that he set; Brinsden, being (at first) continually in Bed, and regarding little but eating and Dozing, complaining of the Hardness of his Case, to be condem'd to dye for accidentally killing (as he said) a Woman, his Wife; and scorning; (as seem'd to others) to speak to, or pray with, Robbers and Plunderers.

Before their Execution, I spoke to some of the Pareiculars of their Case, from Duter. 32. 41, 42.

If I whet my glittering Sword, and my Hand take hold on Judgment; I will render Vengeance to mine Enemies, and will reward them that hate me.

I will make mine Arrows drunk with Blood, (and my Sword shall devour Flesh) and that with the Blood of the Slain, and the Captives.

From whence we consider'd,

First, The Resentment of the Almighty, that naturally pursues the Ungodly, and those who indulge in sensual Pleasures.

Secondly, If Vengeance naturally follows Sin, The Patience, and Submission, that ought to appear in the Sufferers, for their Vices.

Thirdly, That they ought to root out of their Breasts, all Malice and Ill-will towards their Accusers; especially considering the Cruelty of some of their Crimes; and that their Adversaries acted in pursuance of publick Justice; the punishment of their Vices, being the Protection of the Just.

And also, before they suffer'd, we endeavour'd to instruct them from, Job 4. 7, 8.

Remember, I Pray thee, who ever perish'd being Innocent? Or, Where were the Righteous cut off.

Even as I have seen, They that plow Iniquity and sow Wickedness, reap the same.

During the Admonitions, that follow'd from the Words, Thomas Etheridge , and Benjamin Shambler , evidence a peculiar Regard; and indeavour'd afterwards, to inculcate them into their Companions, when in the Condemn'd-Hold.

The ACCOUNT of the Malefactors, during their Confinement.

1. THOMAS WILSON , Aged, 20; born in London; was Convicted of Robbing J. Cowel, near Islington, of a Hat, a Wig, and about One Shilling in Money, on the 6th of August last. And W. Owen, on the 27th of the same Month; he having pleaded Guilty to those and all other Indictments that could be brought against him, and desiring no Favour from any Man.

When I examin'd him concerning his Life, he said, when about 12 Years of Age, he could not tolerate the Jurisdiction of his Parents, but lay out sometimes several Nights together, only to gain the Mastery over them, which he thought when once obtain'd, he should easily keep. But not being able so young to tyranize over his Parents, he went at 13 Years of Age to Sea ; and was several Months in the Baltick, and about Bremen and Hamburg : But not behaving as he should do, was fourteen times lashed till Raw, and then salted; and was six times hung up by the Heels, so that being glad to get Home again, he went 'Prentice to a Sawyer , and thought that easie Labour. But having serv'd about four Years, by Fleet-Ditch , he grew uneasie (he said) with living well, and went again to Sea; was at Lisbon , The Streights , Port-Mahone , &c. but was sickly almost all the time he was there, having got a Surfeit of Wines and Fruits at his first Landing, which stuck by him; but he believ'd it would have gone perfectly off, if he had not got other Uneasiness by bad Women; which, with the Heat of the Country, brought him near the Grave. So that getting to England again as soon as he could, he Courted a young Woman, who had an entire Affection for him, and afterwards Wedded her, (about two Years ago.) But her Friends discovering it, and being certify'd of his being given to Drink and to Ill-Company, they took away his Wife, to preserve her from the Ruin that was apprehended from such a Marriage. Till this (he said,) he never Thiev'd; but being greatly fond of her, after this he was scarcely in his Senses, could not go to Bed for several Nights thro' Grief for her Absence, not car'd what became of himself; so that getting into any leud Company he could, to divert his Melancholly, he met with those who engag'd him to accompany them on the Highway. Some of these, he said, he had inform'd against, and they were committed to Newgate, and others were Dead, or fled from Justice.

He added that these were mean Robbers, for they never but once robb'd with a Pistol; using large Sticks with Lead in their Ends, and fitted for the Purpose; with which, he said, they did not strike, unless the Passenger was unruly, or they apprehended themselves too weak to go manfully up; but that they knock'd down a Footman, between Mary Bone and St. Giles's Pound , tho' they had his Watch and Handkerchief without Resistance. The one time that he robb'd with a Pistol, was in Company with one Gesby, since fled away toward Gibraltar, between the said Pound and Half way House, taking about 8 s. in Money, and two remarkable old Pieces of Silver, which he sold in Fleet street.

Being told by a Gentleman, that he ought to make all the Discoveries of Robberies committed, he could; because 'twas doing Justice to the World, as Innocent Men might be suspected, of what he had perform'd; and also that Injur'd

Persons might receive Satisfaction, as to the Persons who robb'd them, at least, if not as to their Goods lost: And being told farther, that 'twas in vain for him to fancy his Repentance was sincere, unless he was Candid and Ingenious, and took the shame due to his Offences upon himself; (whatever Ill-designing People might tell Malefactors to the contrary;) he, upon this, said, he was ready to give any Account of his Robberies that should be required of him.

He declar'd, That he robb'd a Man of 4 Pounds of find Snuff, and of his Hat and Wig, by Pancrass , but being very Drunk, as he was going to rifle the Man's Pockets, he slipt backwards, and the Man ran away; he had no Pistol. The same Evening, he robb'd a Person of a Watch, near the same Place. Two Days after, they robb'd a Man and a Woman between Highgate and Holloway ; the Man of 2 s. and some Copper; the Woman of a fine Hat and Holland Apron; from whence they ran cross the Fields, and over the Ditches, fancying they should be pursu'd; but finding it otherways, they fell to robbing again about Kentish-Town .

He also said, That before his Comrade and himself robb'd Mr. Cowel by Islington, he begg'd his Companion not to attack him, for he thought he knew him, and after they ad robb'd him of his Hat and Wig, was for throwing the Hat away, for fear of Discovery. The Robbery, he said, that afford'd them most Booty, was a little above 6 Weeks ago, between the Bowling-Green and the Burying Ground beyond Lambs Conduit; where they took from a single Person a Watch, some Money, a Plate-button'd Coat, a Cane, and a Wig, in value about 10 l.

He remaind very desirous of taking upon himself the Robbery committed on Thomas Ackersly , of his Hautboy and Flagelet, as he came from Kentish-Town ; declaring that he robb'd him and threw the Haut boy away near the Road.

Tho' he had an uncommon roughness in his Aspect and Deportment, as well as a natural Surliness in his Temper; yet when the Prospect of Death was immediately before him, he appear'd very desirous of making his Peace with God, and informing himself in the Requisities to Repentance; never that I know of Absenting from the Prayers, but preparing himself with much Care for the Reception of the Holy Sacrament before he died.

2. CHARLES PALMER , was convicted of Breaking the House of Sir John Smith , and stealing 3 Coach Glasses, value 6 l. and 7 Seats, value 4 l.

He was about 28 Years of Age; born in Cambridge. Went young to wait on a Gentleman 3 Miles from New Market, and liv'd 8 Years with him; liv'd as Coachman with another Gentleman, before he came to London; thought himself happily settled as Coachman to Sir John Smith ; but blam'd his Wife, who liv'd from him, and was as Assistance to him; taking no Notice of him, till he was condemn'd, then going twice to him to learn were Money was due to him, which receiving, she wholly disappear'd, nor ever afforded him any Subsistance in his Necessities. He appear'd very Regardful of his Duty, tho' Weak and Sickly; seem'd concern'd and surpriz'd at the Thoughts of Death; yet said he had an assur'd Hope of Salvation.

3. RICHARD OXER , alias THOMAS HUDSON of St. Mary Bassing-shaw , was convicted of Breaking the House of Testard, and taking some Plate, value 4 l. 14 s. about 8 in the Morning.

He was above 30 Years of Age; could neither Write or Read: Had robb'd in several Counties, till being a suspected Person there, he thought it best to hide himself in London; he broke into a House by Charing Cross , when the Watch was in sight of him; tho' he had left all his Comrades in the Country: He broke into a Gentleman's House in Thames Street , who belongs to the Sea, and stole a Tankard, some Spoons, and other Pieces of Plate. But he said, he could not recover any Person his Goods, else he would do it, before he left the World.

4. THOMAS MILKSOP , was convicted of Assaulting John Wharton , J. Freeman, Avis Freeman , &c. coming in a Coach from Belsize, between 8 and 9 in the Evening, ear the End of Fig-Lane , and taking from them all about 19 s.

He was about 23 Years old; Born in the Old Bayly , put Apprentice , he said, to a Vintner, where he liv'd very pleasantly, but learnt some things not proper he thought for Boys to be acquainted with. He said, (tho' his Friends required him to keep in the Paths of Modesty and Sobriety, yet he went from the love of diverting Company, to the love of jovial Fellows and from thence to vicious Acquantaince. He said he fancyed Wright and Berrige, (executed) and us'd to Accompany them. He robb'd a Lady and her Servant beyond Highgate , of near 20 s. &c. Vetur'd once to rob a Man in a Garden, and got away before the Man dare make any Noise. He added, that when J. Reading. J. Shaw, &c. were living, he wanted not Money, could command a Horse for every Expedition; but has of late been so bad a Plunderer, that he could provide nothing but a Pistol and Bullets. He confess'd the Robbery he was convicted of, (with many others:) but said he shot not at (Roberts) the Coach-man, till he lash'd him with his Whip to the Heart, and then he shot with a Design to miss his Life: He said, when he was taken, he thrust the Purse into the Grass, to save the Money rather than to conceal the Robbery.

He desir'd I would especially take Notice, that tho' he had a Wife and a Child, she never was appriz'd of his Robberies, he always composing himself at Night before he return'd to her; and express'd himself with Disatisfaction: That notwithstanding, he cohabited with other Women, and once with a Man's Wife, for which he ask'd Pardon of God and Men, and seem'd to be entirely Penitent: He said, he found nothing prosper but Virtue; nor was there any Satisfaction but in religious Duties; Qualifying himself for the Sacrament with much care,

5. JOHN CASEY , was convicted of Assaulting Michael Huny-burn, and taking from him a Watch, Value 40 s. Which was afterwards sold for 20 s. and the Money divided between Casey, Carrol, and Junks.

He was was about 18 Years old, born in London, put Apprentice 130 Miles from thence, but his Master and he Quarrelling, they parted by Agreement: His Father then took him with him a Soldier, as his Brother was before: Before he took to Robbing, about half a Year ago, contrary to the Advice of his Father, and disobeying is Commands, in staying out of Nights, &c. Tho' his Father, once swore too rashly, on the Holy Bible, that if ever he stay'd out after 10 a Clock again, he would never see him more.

He said, he little imagin'd, that when he accompanied his Brother to his ignominious Death, he should so soon follow himself; but his Father answer'd him, he doubted not, but 'twas for his Good, for he might have liv'd looser and dyed a worse Man.

He was but ignorant, in what related to his Duty, eanrestly advised, to regard his Soul, as he expected God should regard it hereafter.

6. BENJAMIN SHAMBLER , of St. Mary le Bow ; was convicted on the new Act of Parliament, for that he feloniously receiv'd 82 l. 10 s. due to Eliz. Turner , for her Christmas Dividend, for 1650 l. South Sea Stock; he having forged a Note at the Great James Tavern , directed to Conrade de Goles , Esq ; And the Name of Eliz. Turner , being subscribed by his Brother.

He said he was 22 Years of Age; served seven Years to an Haberdasher of hard Wares ; during which time, he was compleatly Happy; ask'd no Liberty but had it; and was used more like a Son, than a Servant. It was confirmed by all, that he went very constantly to Church; and took a delight in it.

He also said, That his Brother would have perswade him to have gone to Mexico with him, telling him, that he himself had gotten under the South Sea Company at Mexico, 400 l. a Year; But this, Benjamin refus'd to go, answering, that he waited for his Master's Shop, who was Ancient and Infirm; Nor, was he without some Hopes of having his Masters Daughter, whom he had a real Affection for.

He declared that he entirely forgave his Brother, tho' wholly induced by him to perform this Action: Adding, that he earnestly desir'd to see his Brother, in order to entreat him with his dying Words, to lead a sober Le; for he fear'd it

was remote to Regularity, having been at Peru, when very Young, from whence he travell'd to Mexico; then returning to England, was fitted out by his eldest Brother for a Place u troveditor General of Port-Mahone; but soon returning again to England, went with the Ambassador to Spain. After which he travell'd again to Mexico 400 l. per Annum under the South Sea Company; but going to Jamaica. fl Sk, and spent it all. But returning once more to London, got again into Employment; but intended to have imbarked with Mr. Bret (deceas'd) for Jamaica.

This Prisoner was very serious in his Duty; he said, he wish'd he might be Transported for 21 Years, more, or more, to prevent the Disgrace of his Family, and the sorrow of his Mother; but if his Death would benefit the Nation, he submitted with Satisfaction. He read to Oxer, and reprov'd Wilson, for his Behaviour; and excited Mr. Brisden to his Duty; and also set Psalms to 'em as oft as he could induce them to regard that part of their Duty. But tho' he was at first very averse to Death, as Death appear'd he grew less and less uneasie at it, being ready he hoped he (said) to leave Care and Trouble for eternal Peace and Quiet.

7. ARTHUR HUGHS , was condemn'd for Assaulting Jane Young in Panton Street about 10 at Night, and taking a Pocket, and a Handkerchief and Nine Shillings. He said the Stick he carry'd in his Sleeve on those Occasions, was with intent to Stun those they robb'd, and serv'd better than a Pistol, because it made no Noise. He denyed that the 3 Men, who sate on the Bench with him, were appriz'd before-hand of his intent to rob any one. That when he Robb'd Mr. Honibourn, with J. Casey in Mr. Masons Skettle-yard at Pimblicoe . They did not push the Man down the Sellar, who was robb'd, but he fell down, there being a great Croud of People.

8. ROBERT WILKINSON , of St. James's Clarkenwell , was condemn'd, (with James Lincoln ) for the Murder of Peter Martin , Pensioner of Chelsea-College , near Hide Park-wall ; Wilkinson seizing the Deceised, as Lincoln knock'd him down for crying out; and afterwards taking him up, and leading him on, while Wilkinson prick'd him behind with his Sword to make him Advance; till William Lock , ask'd 'em, How Martin could go on, for he was Dead? They were also convicted of Robbing F. Clark in his Chair, about 11 at Night, between Covent-Garden and Conduit-Street ; Wilkinson standing with a Pistol over one Chair-man, Carrol (who escaped) over the other, while V. Carrick, (executed,) robb'd the Gentleman of a Sword, and 10 s. and Wilkinson firing a Pistol at a Woman, who called Thieves, out of a Window; which broke the Window, but miss'd her: Wilkinson was convicted also of 3 other Robberies on the High-way, in all five.

This Malefactor was about 35 Years old; not bred to any Business, but living at large; his honestest Employment being Combating at Hockley in the Hole, where all Men were surpriz'd at his Strength of Limbs, tho' small in Size. He was of a Mind most Desperate, and equal to any Mischief. Among those he robb'd was one of a Publick House in Ivy-Lane: Two Gentlemen, on Horseback, on this side Highgate, of Two Watches, and about 40 s. in Money, in Company with Shaw and Berridge (executed.) But he denyed, that when he told the Person in Fig Lane, he knock'd him backwards into the Ditch, designing there to Throtle him, had not one of his Companions held his Arm, while the Person himself pleaded that he was Unarmed, and that they had nothing to fear from him, but might use him as they would.

When first Condemn'd, he was somewhat Free and and Candid; but towards the last, would confess nothing. Being Refuse the Sacrament for his Behaviour, (denying peremptorily that he knew any thing of the Murder of Peter Marting.)

He said, that if he might not go to Heaven as the rest did, he hoped to go by himself.

At the Tree, he spoke to the People (as did also J. Lincoln) Protesting He was no Way concern'd in the Murder, nor ever knew Lincoln before apprehended; adding, he did not value Hanging in Chains, but had no business to tell Lyes to make himself Guilty before he died. This he spoke, as he was able for Faintness, having Fasted three Days and three Nights before his Execution, both from Victuals and Drink.

9. JAMES LINCOLN , was also convicted of the Murder of the said Peter Martin , Pensioner of Chelsea College : He was something younger, and of a Nature something more soften'd with Humanity, then his Comrade Wilkinson: He mention'd several Robberies, but none remarkable, committed between Hamp-stead , Tottenham , and Pancrass ; on Foot commonly; and sometimes, only with a Sick; he said, he never got above 4 l. at a Time. They robb'd Esquire Fielding, near Hide-Park Well , of a Watch, some Gold, &c. He also said, That had he a golden Earth, and ow'd so much to injur'd People, he would most freely and gladly restore it to them; but he had nothing to restore.

They had form'd a Conspiracy, to robb his Grace the Duke of New-Castle of his George, which being fasten'd to the Garter, they expected easily to have perform'd the Fact; that they waited (I think) 4 Nights, near the Pump, at the End of Queen street, expecting his Grace to return from Court, on the Collar-Day.

At the Tree he also deny'd the murder of the Pensioner; said, he forgave William Lock , tho' he had taken his Life; and added, at last, that he dyed a Roman Catholick.

10. WILLIAM HADDEN , was convicted of Returning from Transportation, before the Expiration of 14 Years.

He was 32 Years of Age; born in Kent of mean, but honest Parents; who yet took no great Care to instruct him in Letters. He receiv'd the Sarcament with a Multitude of Tears, and left the World with the more earnest Expressions, and loud Invocations to Heaven.

11. EWARD MIRES , was convicted also of Returning from Transportation, &c.

He was 17 Years old, born 10 Miles from London, sent thither to be 'Prentice to a Sawyer ; after 3 Years, ran into Kent ; got to be Receiver of the Turnpike on Deptford Road : Not liking the Trouble, left it: Robb'd a Sweetheart of a Ring, which he gave to another Sweetheart Lodg'd in Southwark; in Company, they talk'd how an old Woman had thriv'd, who had liv'd over against 'em; he watched the old Woman one Day saw her go out, got into her House thro' the back Yard, stole Spoons, Rings, no Linnen; being taken, a Coral was found upon him; his Character was so good before the Justice, that he promis'd to assist him at Maidstone Assizes, tho' he was forc'd to commit him, but yet he was there convicted; Transported. He said at first they were chain'd down in Darkness in the Ship, but afterwards serv'd on Deck being useful: But fell to a severe Master on the Coast of America , having only a Shirt and Skins ty'd for Shoes, and Indian Corn to eat. He was sold to a Carpenter, for 15 l. travell'd from one Plantation to another, 3800 Miles Westward, liv'd by Anapolis; travell'd to the Borders of Canada , got there about Christmas, before the Harvest of their Indian Corn. He was mindful of his Duty.

AT the Tree, all Confest their Offences but Wilkinson and Lincoln. Milsop hop'd (he said) none would reflect on his Innocent Parents; hop'd God would pardon his great Sin in shooting his Pistol into the Coach he robb'd by Fig-Lane before ever he spoke; and also abusing a single Woman by Cane Wood , whom he first robb'd of an Apron, Necklace, &c.

Haden deliver'd me a Paper before he dy'd Containing, I liv'd honestly, till 5 Years ago, drinking with some Friends, to Excess, one slipt out, without paying his Share; we mist him, followed him Home; he being in Bed, we took his Clock, and pawn'd it at the said Ale-house, for 8 s. About a Year after, he took me up, from my Work, had me Cast at Maidstone Assizes, for Transportation. Being in the Ship the Transports mutinied; I standing on the Deck, was push'd over Board, but taken up a-live; returning to London, was taken, and am to dye: I pray God pardon all who have injured me, especially the Captain, who knew me Innocent of the Mutiny.

W. Hadden

The Paper that was deliver'd to me, just after the Morning Sermon, the Day before they dyed, by Wilson, must be inserted after the Account of Mr. Brinsden, for want of Room here

N. B. The Account of Matthias Brinsden who Murdered his Wife, being very Large, and Remarkable (in particular as to the Incest of his Daughter) we are obliged to refer it to a single Paper, which will be published Too-morrow, about 12 o-Clock. Note, if any Paper should come out concerning Mr. Brinsden besides what is Printed by me John Applebee , is spurious and false.

T. PURNEY, Ordinary, and Chaplain.

