The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Speeches of the Malefactors that were executed at Tyburn, on Friday the 19th of July, 1706.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 3d, 4th, and 5th instant, Six Persons, viz. Five Men and One Woman, received Sentence of Death. The Woman, and three of the Men, having obtained the QUEEN's gracious Reprieve, there are but two order'd for present Execution.

The Day on which the Sentence was pass'd upon them, I did in the Evening, with two other Divines, visit them, pray by them, and exhort them to prepare themselves for Death, with earnest Prayers to God for Grace to Believe in Christ, and to Repent of their Sins. And this I did every Day, both Morning and Afternoon, while they were under this Condemnation. And,

On the Lord's Day, the 7th instant, I preach'd to them and other Persons there present, viz. In the Morning upon Psal. 109. the latter part of the 4th Verse, the Words being these, I give my self unto Prayer; shewing from these Words,

I. The Necessity of Prayer at all times, and particularly when we are in trouble

II. The due Qualifications for Prayer.

III. The great Virtue and blessed Effects of Prayer.

And in the Afternoon I preach'd upon these Words, Col: 3. 5 and 6 being part of the second Evening-Lesson, Mortify therefore your Members which are upon the Earth, Fornication, Uncleanness, Inordinate Affection, Evil Concupiscence, and Covetousness, which is Idolatry. For which things sake the Wrath of God comes on the Children of Disobedience.

From which words I shewed,

I. What those Vices, both express'd and imply'd in the Text, were, 1st, As to their Nature; And 2dly, As to their Effects.

II. Their Punishment, described by the Wrath of God which comes on the Children of Disobedience, i. e. on such as in Disobedience to, and Contempt of the Divine Laws, dare presume to commit those foul Crimes, which are so directly opposite to the Purity of the Gospel of Christ, and the everlasting Interest of Mens Souls.

III. Their Remedy and Cure, viz. How they (according to the Apostle's Precept) may be mortify'd and subdued, and totally rooted out of our Hearts. Which is effected by the power of God's Spirit, implanting in their stead, the Habit of Virtue, and forming and reforming us to Holiness.

On the last Lord's Day, being the 14th instant, I preach'd again to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon Levit. 26. the latter part of the 43d verse - And they shall accept of the Punishment of their Iniquity; because, even because they despised my Judgement, and because their Soul abhorred my Statutes.

From which Words, first open'd and explain'd, I shew'd I. That it is both the Duty and Interest of Sinners to receive patiently and thankfully, and to improve carefully and comfortably, God's Corrections and Punishments inflicted on them in this World. And,

II. That if they do in the time of Grace and in the Sincerity of their Hearts, repent of all their Follies and Sins, they may happily prevent the terrible and endless Punishment of another World.

Having enlarged on these Heads, I then proceeded to give them Directions, by which they might know whether their Repentance was such as were available to Salvation: And I concluded all with pressing Exhortations to the Persons Condemned; That they would make good use of the present Opportunity, and husband the few Moments, now remaining them, so well and with such a Religious Care, as that (through the Divine Grace and the Merits of Christ) they might improve them into a happy Eternity.

In my private Discourses with them, I perswaded them to make ingenuous Confessions of their Crimes; which they did, and were willing, for the World's Satisfaction, that they should be made publick, as follows.

I. John Wills Gent . Condemned for stabbing Joseph Derrcy , on the 4th of May last past, in the Parish of St. Margaret Westminster . He said he was about 33 years of Age, born of very good and honest Parents in the County of Devon : That he had been 16 years in the late KING'S and HER present MAJESTY's Service, first under the Command of Capt. Spire in Col. Titcomb's Regiment in Ireland , and afterwards under that of Cap. Powel in the Duke of Marlborough's Regiment in Flanders , in both which he serv'd in the Capacity of a Sergeant ; and he also had rode in the Earl of Oxford's Regiment: And last of all in the Regiment of the Life-Guard, for near 12 Months. He acknowledged he had done a very ill Thing in killing Mr. Derry, who was his particular Friend, and for whom he had a great kindness but, (he said,) he was provok'd. However, he seem'd to be very sensible, that it was a very heinous Crime, and was very sorry he had committed it. He heartily begg'd Pardon of God and Man, both for that great Crime and for all other the Miscarriages of his Life, which (this bloody Fact excepted) he said, were no other but such as were common to Mankind, and those of his Profession. He pray'd, That God would deliver him from Blood-guiltiness, and from all other his Sins, for Christ's sake, in whom alone he trusted for Salvation. He was a Man of few words, and seem'd to be of a meek Spirit, while under this Condemnation: In which (to my best Observation) he behav'd himself as a penitent Sinner.

II. Benjamin Arnold ; Condemned for Breaking and Robbing the House of Mr . Robert Crossfeild on the 11th of May last past, about one of the Clock in the Morning, and taking from thence a pair of Snuffers, 22 Plates, 6 Dishes 6 Silver Tea-Spoons gilt, and 6 ungilt, with another Spoon, and diverse other Goods; whereof some were found upon him when he was apprehended. He own'd his Commission both of this Fact and the other for which he was indicted, but acquited of it, for want of sufficient Evidence, viz. That of Breaking the House of Mrs . Dorothy Bentley , and taking from thence some Linnen and a Copper-pot, on the same Day and about the same time of the Night above-mentioned. He further acknowledged that he had been guilty of such other Facts before, but he could not give any particular account of them nor make amends for them; and he seem'd now to be sensible, that the profaning of the Lord's Day, and neglect of God's Service had first brought him to this Wickedness, and to all manner of Lewdness and Vice, as Swearing, Whoring, Drinking, &c. of which he confessed he had been highly guilty; and therefore was very much dejected, when he look'd back upon his past Life, which he found to have been attended with so great Miscarriages; and he pray'd that God of his Mercy would forgive him, for Jesus Christ's sake. He said, that he was 34 years old, born at Weston in Hertfordshire , and that at 12 years of Age, he listed himself to serve under Capt. Harding in Col. Dunbaon's Regiment, when it went into France , under the Command of the Duke of Monmouth, then Lieutenant General; That afterwards he serv'd in Tangier under Capt. Talbot in Col. Kirk's Regiment ; and likewise at Sea, sometimes in Merchant-Ships , and sometimes in the Royal Navy ; and was in that Squadron coming from the Streights, when Sir Francis Wheeler was cast away. He own'd that he had been in many dangers, yet so stupify'd and so deeply sunk into Sin, he was as not to be brought by them into any sense of his wicked Life, and of the Necessity of reforming it. He told me also, That he, for sometime, rode in the Earl of Oxford's Regiment, and that of late he had employ'd himself in the Trade of making Pump-shooes for Children , and lived in Grub-street , where he rented a House; adding, that if God had been pleased to spare his Life, he was resolv'd to follow his Trade, and to commit no more ill things: But since he must die, he pray'd that he might have Grace to die in Faith and Charity, and that the Divine Providence would take care of his Wife, now very big with Child, and of two other small Children he left behind him. And he desired that the World would not reproach his Wife upon his account; she being a very honest, virtuous, and pains-taking Woman.

This Day they were carried from Newgate to Tyburn , where I met them; and having discharged my last Duty to their Souls, by Exhortations, Prayers, and singing of Penitential Psalms, and rehearsing the Articles of our Christian Faith, I left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allow'd them. Then the Cart drew away, and they were turn'd off, whilst calling upon God, for Mercy and Salvation. Arnold's Voice, by reason of an Impediment he had in his Speech, was not so distinctly heard, as Mr. Wills's; whose last Prayer is Verbatim as follows.

O Merciful Father, who art the Lord and Giver of Life who desirest not the Death of a Sinner, but that he may be converted and live eternally: Who, in thy great goodness and pitty, hast promised pardon and forgiveness to all Sinners, that truly confess and forsake their Sins: Lord! I acknowledge my transgressions, which are many and grievous, I have sinned above the number of the Sands upon the Sea-shore. I have omitted good Duties, and committed ill things in thy Sight. I have by my Sins, defac'd thy Image in my self, and destroy'd it in him whose Blood I have shed, in a rash and cruel Manner, to the pollution of my own Soul. But, O Lord! I repent from the ground of my Heart, and in the bitterness of my Spirit; most humbly beseeching thee to forgive me all my offences. Lord forgive me, and destroy me not in mine iniquities! Deliver me from Blood-guiltiness, O God, Thou that art the God of my health; and my Tongue shall sing of

thy righteousness. And in this my great Extremely (in this needful time of trouble) Vouchsafe, Lord, to visit me with thy Salvation. Look down from Heaven upon me with those Eyes of Grace and Compassion, wherewith Thou art wont to look upon thy Children in their affliction and misery. Heal my poor wounded Soul, O thou Heavenly Physician, and pour into it, the Oyl of Joy and Gladness, the Spi it of Grace and thé Hope of Salvation. Encrease my Faith, perfect my Repentance, and let me feel that CHRIST dy'd for me; and that his most precious Blood, which cryes better Things than that of Abel, has cleansed my Conscience from all filthiness of Sin, and wholly purify'd and sanctify'd my Soul. Lord! grant that I may now peaceably and joyfully yield it up into thy merciful Hands. Let thy blessed Angels carry it into thy Kingdom; and do Thou receive it into thy Glory.

O Lord! hear me! and be gracious to me, and to my Fellow-Sufferer; that we may be both of us admitted into thy Heavenly Paradise.

Lord! Preserve thy Church: Bless my Friends; and forgive my Foes. Have pity and compassion upon my poor afflicted Wife; Comfort and Relieve her in her affliction, and be a Husband to her, protect and defend her in this troublesome World, and in thy due time bring her into that blessed and glorious Place, where I hope I am now going to enjoy Thee unto all Ages of Eternity, Amen.

O LORD JESUS, who didst shew Mercy and Salvation to the poor repenting Malefactor that was crucify'd with Thee upon the Cross, extend the same Grace to me; and speak peace to my afflicted Soul, and say, That this day it shall be with Thee in Paradise.

And Thou Holy Spirit, proceeding from the Father and the Son, sanctify me throughly, and fit and dispose my Soul now to enter into the possession and enjoyment of unspeakable and Eternal Blessings.

O THOU, most Holy, most Mighty, most Glorious, and most Blessed TRINITY, Father, Son and Holy Ghost, One ever Living and Immortal GOD, have mercy upon me; and suffer me not in this my last hour, for any pains or terrors of Death, to fall from Thee: But of thy Gracious and Divine Mercy, make this my Death a happy Passage for my Soul into the Mansions of Blissful Eternity; and grant, that my Body may also be raised one day unto the same Glory. Even so, O Blessed Lord God, who can'st do all things, according to thy infinite Power, both in Heaven and Earth; and to whom therefore I ascribe with my last Breath here, as is most due, all Honour and Glory, Praise and Adoration, for ever and ever. Amen.

Arnold shew'd me a Letter, which he sent (just before his Death) to his Wife; wherein he acknowledges, " That God " is just in his inflicting this deserv'd Punishment upon him; " and prays, that he would pardon and reform those Persons " (therein nam'd; but not here in hope of their amendment) " who brought him into those wicked things he had done, and " for which he must now die. He commends his Wife for her " Love to him, and for her being honest in every respect, and " exhorts her so to continue, and strictly to keep the Sabbathday; praying Almighty God to bless her, and their two " Children alive, with that in her Belly. And lastly, he heartily recommends them all (as he does his own departing " Soul) to the tender Mercies of God.

At the place of Excution, both Mr. Wills and Arnold desired the Standers-by, to pray for them; and both they and others, who should hear of their shameful Death, to take Warning by them; To avoid Idleness and ill Company; To serve God, and to keep the Sabbath-day religiously; To refrain from violent Passions, from Drunkenness, Swearing, and Cursing, and from all manner of Lewdness and Debauchery; And to think often of a Judgment to come.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Persons, by

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate .

Friday July 19. 1706:

††† Whereas some Persons take the Liberty of putting out Sham-Papers, pretending to give an Account of the Malefactors that are Executed; in which Papers they are so defective and unjust, as sometimes to mistake even their Names and Crimes, and often misrepresent the State they plainly appear to be in, under their Condemnation, and at the time of their Death. To prevent which great Abuses, These are to give Notice, That the only true Account of the Dying Criminals, is that which comes out the next Day after their Execution, about 8 in the Morning, the Title whereof constantly begins with these Words, The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, &c. In which Paper (always Printed on both sides the better to distinguish it from Connterfeits) are set down the Heads of the several Sermons' Preach'd before the Condemned: and after their Confessions and Prayers, an Attestation thereto under the Ordinary's Hand, that is, his Name at length; and at the bottom the Printer's Name, Dryden Leach ; which if the Readers would but observe, they would avoid those scandalous Cheats so constantly impos'd, upon them.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Just Published,

EUrope a Slave, unless England break her Chains. Discovering the Grand Designs of the French Popoish Party in England, for several years last past. pr. 6. d. 2 Accurate Plans (on a Broadside to put in Frames) of Osteend, Newport, Dunkirk, and Wionoxberg. Also another of Tournay, and Aeth. All sold by A. Baldwin in Warwick-lane. pr. 6. d. each.

This Day is Published,

THe Misciellanious Works of the Right Honourable the late Earls of Rochester and Roscommon, with the Memoirs of the Life of and Character of the late Earl of Rochester, in a Letter to the Dutchess of Mazarine. By Mons. St Evremont. To which is added, a curious Collection of Orignal Poems and Translations, by the Earl of Dorset, the Lord S - rs, the L. H - x, Sir Roger l'Estrange Mr Otway, Mr Brown, Mr Prior, Mr Walsh Mr Row, pr. 5s: The Miscellanious Works of his Grace the D. of Buckingham in 2 Vol pr. 10 s The Jilted Bridegroom, or the London Coquet, pr. 1s. All sold by B. Bragg, in Pater-Noster-Row.

BOOKS Set forth by Paul Lorrain , Ordinary of Newgate , viz.

††† The last Words of the Lady Margaret De la Musse : And the Dying Man's Assistant, both printed for J. Lawrence at the Angel in the Poultry. A Preparation for the Sacrament; and Moral and Divine Maxims. Printed for B. Aylmer at the three Pidgeons in Cornhil. And a Guide to Salvation, sold at the Star in St. Paul's Church-Yard.

RObert Whitledge , Book-binder at the Bible in Creed-lane within Ludgate , can furnish all Booksellers, and others, with the Welsh Bible, Welsh Common-Prayer, and Welsh Almanack; and with all sorts of other Bibles and Common-Prayers, large and small, with Cuts or without, Rul'd or Unrul'd; Bound in Turky-leather, or otherwise; extraordinary or plain, or unbound. Also the Statutes at large, and the Articles and Canons of the Church of England. Tate and Brady's new Version of the Singing Psalms. The Common-Prayer in French. The new Book of Rates compleat. With all other Books neatly Bound.

A Companion for the Afflicted, whether in Mind, Body, or Estate. Being a Collections of Texts of Scriptures, and Forms of Prayer, suited to the several conditions of Persons in Affliction, to which is added, Directions and Prayers for the reciving the Holy Sacrament, and a Morning and Evening Prayer for the Use of Families. By John Lewis , Rector of Acryse , in the Diocess of Canterbury . Printed for W. Hawes at the Bible and Rose in Ludgate-street.

THe Grounds and Principals of the Christian Religion, explain'd in a Catechetical Discourse for the Instruction of young people. Written in French by J. F. Ostervald. To which is added, A Liturgy: Or, Form of publick Prayers, which are said in the Church of Neufchatel every Saturday at Five of the Clock in the Evening, and were establish'd in the Month of May, 1702. Rendred into English by Mr Hum. Wanley : And revis'd by Geo. Stanhope , D. D . Printed for W. Hawes at the Rose in Ludgate-Street

AN Answer to a Popish Book, entituled, A true and modest account of the chief Points in controversie, betwee the Roman Catholicks and the Protestants. Together with some Considerations upon the Church of England. By N. C. Wherein the Objections N. C. has brought against the Arguments which his Grace John, late Lord Arch-bishop of Canterbury, made use of in his Sermons against Popery, design'd for the use of such as are in danger of being preverted by the Emissaries of the Church of Rome. Printed for W. Hawes at the Bible and Rose in Ludgate-street. 1706.

AT the Golden Acorn in White Fryars , coming down by the Green Dragon-Tavern in Fleerstreet , are to be sold all sorts of Acts of Parliament, Proclamations, Declarations, &c. With great variety of scarce Stitch'd Books and Pamphlers, according to the method of William Miller late of London , Stationer .

A Preparative to Death written Orignally in Latin by Erasmus, now render'd into English, to which are added Meditations, Prayers, and Directions for Well, Sick, and Dying Persons. The daily self Examinatior, or an earnest perswasive to the Duty of Daily self Examination. Both by Robert Warren . M. A . Rector of Charlton in Kent . A Consolary Discourse written above 1400 years ago, in a time of great mortality and distress. By that blessed Saint and Martyr Caecilius Cyprianus, English'd for the sake of the afflicted. Secreet and Family Prayers with brief helps for the more devout receiving the Lord's Supper; to which is added a Discourse of the value of the Soul, by J. Armstrong, B. D. Ramelies, A Poem humbly inscrib'd to the Duke of Marlborough. By W. Wagstaff Gent. Printed for Tho. Atkinson , at the White Swan in St Paul's Church-yard .

LONDON , Printed by Dryden Leach , in Dog-well-Court , White-friars , near Fleet-street .

