THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALE FACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On SATURDAY the 6th of this Instant OCTOBER, 1733.

BEING THE FIFTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY, OF THE Rt. Hon. The Lord Mayor for the Time Being.

Number V. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in BoltCourt , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXIII.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and GaolDelivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable John Barber , Esq; Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds; Mr. Justice Lee; Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London; and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex,) at Justice-Hall in the OldBailey, on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the 28th, 29th and 30th of June, 1733, in the Sixth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

One Man, viz. William Sidwell , alias Robinson , and one Woman, viz. Rose Moreton , were by the Jury found Guilty of Capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death. And again,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable John Barber , Esq, Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Honourable Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the said City; and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London; and Justices of Gaol Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the 12th, 13th,

14th of 15th of September, 1733, in the Sixth Year of His Majesty's Reign.

Nine Men, viz. John Bromley , Richard Lamb , John Cannon , Joseph Blunt , Edward Dore , Jonas Pearson , George Richardson , Lawrence Grace and John Smithson ; and one Woman, viz. Ann Soames , were by the Jury found Guilty of Capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

When under Sentence, I instructed them in the Knowledge of those Truths, which are necessary to be understood by every Christian. How that God made Man after his own Image, in Knowledge, Righteousness and true Holiness, and implanted in him a Law, binding and obliging him to the strict, compleat and perfect Obedience thereof, upon a due Observation of which, he promis'd to Adam and his Posterity eternal Life in Heaven, after they had past their Course of Probation in this World. Our First Parents, Adam and Eve, being thus settl'd in a perfect State of Bliss and Happiness, did not long continue in that glorious Condition, wherein God had plac'd them, but (as the Scripture expresses the Matter) they soon found out many Inventions, and forgetting the Obligations they were under, of Obedience to the Laws that were enjoin'd them, and Submission to the Divine Will, they trangress'd the Command of Heaven, by complying with the false Suggestions of Satan, and eating the Forbidden Fruit; by which act of Disobedience, they, and all their Descendants, were subject to Ruin and Misery. Thus the First Covenant, the Condition whereof is, perfect Obedience to the Laws of God, being broken; God did not leave us destitute, but remember'd us in our low Estate, and when there was no Eye to pity us nor no Hand to help us, then he was pleas'd to say unto us, Live. Then God was pleas'd to give the First Promise of the ever glorious Messias, That the Seed of the Woman should bruise the Head of the Serpent, i. e. That Christ Jesus the eternal Son of God, equal to the Father, descended of a Woman in an extraordinary Manner, having the blessed Virgin Mary for an earthy Mother, without an earthy Father, having been conceived by the Power of the Holy Ghost; that this glorious Person, I say, should in the Fulness of Time take

Upon him our Nature, and destroy the Works of the Devil, and bring many Sons and Daughters into Glory, that by his Sufferings and Death, he might tyranize over him that had the Power of Death, and pave the Way for us to eternal Life and Happiness. I shew'd them that Faith or believing in Christ, was the chief Means for us to attain the Benefits purchased by him, and that this Faith in Christ is an hearty and sincere believing in him that he is the Son of God, equal to the Father, and the only Saviour of Sinners, since there is no other Name under Heaven given among Men, whereby we must be saved, but the Name of Jesus, and him crucified. And this must not be an empty speculative Faith; for the Devils believe and tremble, but it must be an operative Faith appearing in our Lives and Conversations, bringing forth the Fruits of Righteousness, which are to the glory and praise of God, tracing the Foot-stepts of the Holy Jesus, who has gone before us as a perfect Pattern of all Holiness and Virtue; engaging us to an unfeigned Repentance for all our Sins, particularly those which are of a more heinous Nature, such as Murthers, Robberies, Thefts, Uncleanness, and such other notorious crimes as they were convicted of and suffered for, &c.

I expos'd to them the great Evil of Theft and Robbery, how displeasing it was to God, as being the Breach of his express Command, Thou shalt not steal; and how detrimental it was to our Neighbours in not only depriving them of their Goods and Substance, but also by the most mischievous and fatal Consequences following thereupon, in frequently robbing Men of their precious Lives, an Injury which could never be repaired.

Some of them having suffered for Murther; I let them see the Atrociousness of that heinous Crime, what Cruelty, Barbarity, and unexpressible Wickedness it imply'd, to rob our Neighbour of his Life, a Loss altogether, irreparable, and for which no Satisfaction can be given but Life for Life: And therefore it is that after the Flood this was the first Precept God gave to Noah, ' And surely your Blood of ' your Lives will I require; at the ' Hand of every Beast will I require it; and at the Hand of Man, ' at the Hand of every Man's Brother will I require the Life of ' Man. Who so sheddeth Man's ' Blood, by Man shall his Blood ' be shed; for in the Image of

' God made he Man.' Gen. ix. 5, 6. Dare any Man destroy the Image of God, yea what in him lies, if the divine Mercy prevent it not, ruin, and at once throw into eternal Misery both Body and Soul of a Man, and can he expect to pass unpunish'd? Lamb having murthered his Wife; I shew'd him what a double Barbarity it was, thus to be cruel to his own Flesh, to treat his Wife, a Part, yea the one half of himself; for the Scripture represents Man and Wife to be no more two, but one person; daily to beat, abuse, and curse her in a most vile manner, at last to murther her, by beating, bruising and mangling her to Death. I also exposed to Blunt the Unreasonableness and Cruelty of his murthering Robert Adair on a sudden, without allowing him time to speak one Word, a Man who had never in the least offended him, a peaceable and inoffensive Man to every Body. The Truth of all this he own'd, and expressed the highest Regret and Sorrow for the same. I explain'd also to him the great Evil of the Sin of Drunkenness, especially in the dismal Effects thereof, as devesting a Man of the Use of his Reason, which was the Occasion of his committing this unaccountable Crime; for he told me, that he was very much in Liquor that Night he did the Murther.

Having thus shown to them the great Evil of Sin, and of their Crimes in particular; I instructed them in the Knowledge of the Christian Sacraments, how they were early dedicated to God in Baptism, to deny the World, the Flesh, and the Devil, and to obey the Laws of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ in every thing; and therefore I exhorted them seriously to renew themselves again by Repentance, and to partake in the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, wherein our baptismal Vows are confirm'd, and all the Benefits of the Covenant of Grace are insured to all them, who believe in Christ, as the Son of God and only Saviour of the World, who repent of their Sins, love God, and are in Peace with all Mankind, &c.

When these and other Exhortations were given, all of them behav'd gravely and with apparent Devotion in Chapel, and when they were sick, and at other times when I visited them in the Cells; they were attentive to prayers and Exhortations, and those of them who could read made regular responses.

Upon Thursday the 4th of October, Report was made to His Majesty in Council, of those twelve Malefactors,

lying under Sentence of Death, in Newgate ; when Rose Moreton , for stealing 4 Guineas, and 33 Shillings and Sixpence, the Money of John Doe , in his House, in the Parish of St. Ann's Westminster , June the 7th, capitally convicted; and upon a 2d Indictment, for stealing Cambrick, and some other Goods, &c. found Guilty to the Value of 4 Shillings and 10 d. John Bromley , for stealing 55 Guineas, 5 Moidores, 2 half Moidores, 1 broad Piece, value 23 Shillings, a quarter broad Piece, value 5 Shillings and 9 d. 5 quarter Guineas, 1 Portugal Piece, value 9 Shillings, 40 l. in Silver, 8 gold Rings, value 40 Shillings, a canvas Bag, a silk Purse, and a thread Purse, the Goods of Thomas Dyer in his House, August the 2d; Ann Soames , otherwise Soanes , for stealing 4 gold Rings, four Handkerchiefs, four Suits of Head-cloaths, four pair of Ruffles, a pair of Stays, and 34 Guineas, the Goods and Money of Mary Cope , in the House of William Marter , June the 27th; and Edward Dore , for stealing 23 Guineas, 3 Moidores, 1 Portugal Piece, value 36 Shillings, a silk purse, and a silver watch, the Money and Goods of George Polly , in his House, June the 28th, receiv'd His Majesty's most gracious Reprieve: The remaining Eight, viz. Richard Lamb , John Cannon , Joseph Blunt , Jonas Pierson , George Richardson , Lawrence Grace and John Smithson ; and William Sidwell , alias Robinson , convicted the first of the two last Sessions, already mention'd, were order'd for Execution.

1. Richard Lamb , was indicted for the Murther of Christian his Wife, by throwing her down, and striking and kicking her on the Head, Neck, Breast and Belly, and giving her, on the hinder-part of her Head, one mortal Bruise and Fracture in her Skull, on the 30th of July last, of which she languish'd till the 3d of August following, and then dy'd. He was a 2d Time indicted, on the Coroner's Inquisition, for the said Murther.

Richard Lamb , as he desir'd me to take Notice, was 42 Years of Age, on Saturday the 29th of September last, being Michaelmasday, of honest Parents, in Northamptonshire . His Father was a Higler, and kept his Family very well, and gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Cyphering, to fit him for Business. He was not put to a Trade, but when of Age, he came to London , being about Fourteen, and had a Friend, who got him to serve an Undertaker for Funerals, under whom he had good Bread, and married a Wife, and liv'd in good Friendship with her, by whom he had some Children, who are all dead. Something more than three Years ago, he married a second Wife, the unhappy Woman for whom he died. She was a Widow, and had been twice married before, and between them there was not a good Harmony. She made Size for Painters , and learn'd him to do so, and in that Way they got a good

Livelihood, but (as he said) both of them drunk too much, and could never be content; for he being often fuddl'd, and she of a boisterous, imperious Temper, she abus'd him at a prodigious Rate, giving him the worst of Names, calling him Whoremonger, Adulterer, Drunkard, up braiding him with his first Wife, which was very galling to him, neither could he suffer it, but often beat her most inhumanely, and unmercifully, to such a Degree, that at last she was forc'd to swear the Peace against him, and he was put in Newprison, where he was detain'd a long Time, till at length, upon his fair Promises, she consented to let him out again; and no sooner had he got his Liberty, and gone home to her, but he continu'd his old Course of Life, perpetually drinking to excess, and beating and abusing his Wife, in a most cruel Manner, so that the poor Woman could have no ease nor Comfort for him, but was put in Danger and Fear of her Life, every Moment, as a Surgeon in the Neighbourhood, upon his Trial, declar'd against him, having been often sent for, to dress and cure the Wounds he gave her, in the Head, and other Parts of the Body. At last she was oblig'd to cause him to be taken up again, when he was order'd to Newgate , where he was kept for some Months, till at length his Wife took him out again last Year, but he no sooner went home with her, but he began and continu'd his old Method of Life, always being in Liquor every Day, when he was quite out of his Senses, and neither knew nor car'd what he did; and his Wrath and Indignation always fell upon the poor miserable Wife. The Character he gave his Wife was, That she was of an uneasy, unaccountable Temper, constantly provoking him with her ill Tongue, and mightily addicted to drinking; so that being very often in Liquor, and he in no better, but commonly in a much worse Condition, this prov'd an Occasion of their quarrelling, and of his beating her like a Stock-fish: Notwithstanding this Account, a worthy Gentleman, who knew his Wife in her preceding Husband's Time, told me, That before she married Lamb, she was a discreet, civil Woman, well acquainted with religious Principles, and versant in the Scriptures, and that he took a Pleasure to speak with her about religious Matters, in which she was by far much more knowing, than any Woman of her Station in that Neighbourhood. This is a Proof, that Lamb, and not the Wife, was in the Fault.

The Account he gave of the Murder, was as follows. The Day before he beat her so unmercifully to Death, being the 29th of July last, he with his Wife, went in the Morning as far as London-Bridge to Visit some Friends or Acquaintances, and to buy a few Goods, but not finding the Person at Home, they return'd to Queen hith , where they bought some Things to the Value of 9 s. 6 d. proper for

their Business they wrought in; from thence they came Home, after they had taken a Dram by the way in a Brandy Shop, then they went to Work, till a Man came in and took Lamb out to a neighbouring Ale-house; the Wife follow'd, and they fell a Quarrelling as they us'd to do, Lamb went further off to another Ale-house, and the Wife finding him out, they stay'd till it was pretty late, still Scolding and Swearing at one another; next they went Home, and she fell two or three Times; she abus'd him very much with her Tongue, he beat her cruelly, she fell and bruis'd her Head upon the Stones, and of these Wounds she receiv'd, partly by his treating her in a most rude Manner, and partly by accidental falls occasion'd by her being in Liquor, he said he believ'd she died. He inclin'd to extenuate his Crime, but did not plainly deny it; he was exhorted to make an ingenuous Confession, and thereby to glorify God, and ease his own conscience: At last he own'd himself guilty of the Murder, took shame and confusion of Face to himself, and said that he heartily and sincerely repented thereof; adding, that when in his Cups, he was desperately wicked, and neither knew, nor car'd what he did. In Chapel, and at other times, he always behav'd well. He desir'd me to take notice, that one M B. came to him on Thursday the 20th of September, making a grievous complaint; she was like to be ruin'd in the Neighbourhood, and to loose her Bread upon his Account; for that they alledg'd, she was the occasion of his ruin and fatal end. He declar'd as a dying Man, and as he was to answer to God in a very short Time, that he never had any criminal Conversation with the said M B, and that he knew not whether she was Man or Woman, but by her Habit. I had been inform'd that he was in Liquor sometimes since his Condemnation. I went to the Cell and reprov'd him sharply for this; he own'd that he was once a little elevated (as he term'd it) when some of his Friends came to visit him, but declar'd his grief for the same, promising solemnly never to do so again. He and Joseph Blunt , gave me many blessings the Night before they died, for the many good instructions I gave them and the rest, particularly in explaining the crimes of Murder and Robbery to them, &c. He was apparently Penitent, declaring his Faith in Christ, in whose Blood which Speaketh better things than that of Abel; he hop'd to be wash'd from all his Sins, particularly that of Murder; and died in Peace with all the World.

Joseph Blunt , was indicted for the Murder of Robert Adair , by maliciously discharging a Musket with Powder and Balls, and thereby giving him one mortal Wound in the left part of the Breast, of the breadth of half an Inch, and depth of six Inches; of which mortal Wound he instantly

died September the 3d. He was a second Time indicted on the Coroner's Inquisition, for the said Murder.

2. Joseph Blunt , 42 years of Age, of honest Parents in Northamptonshire , had no education at School, so that he was grosly ignorant of religious Principles; his Father a Carpenter , bred him to his own Business, to which Trade he serv'd honestly six Years and three Quarters; and when out of his Time, he was Journeyman , and likewise wrought for himself for some Years in the Country; he liv'd soberly and sedately, and injured no Body, only sometimes he drank to excess, and spent his Money foolishly: He was obedient to his Parents, and kept the Church regularly, and about fifteen Years ago he listed himself a Soldier in the first Regiment of Guards , with a Captain (who happen'd to be the same Gentleman who was Captain of the Guards in the Tower that Night the fatal Misfortune fell out) who was down in Northamptonshire at that Time. He behav'd always well in this Station, and with the approbation of his Officers, and belong'd to that part of his Majesty's Guards, who were sent lately upon the defence of Gibralter , and in the Siege, he was look'd upon to be a brave, stout Man, having been a well made, large bon'd strong Fellow, and fit for warlike Actions: As he was standing Centinal upon the Hill, during the Siege, a splinter of the Rock wounded him in the Knee; but of this he recover'd perfectly, but retain'd the Mark thereof. He married a Wife some Years ago, by whom he had one Child, who us'd to come every Day with the Mother to visit him while he was under Sentence, and of whom he was very tender, often weeping when the young Child came to him, and appearing to be in the utmost concern for her. His Wife was a Widow when he married her, having been married to two Soldiers before She was (as some said) an obstropulous, bold Woman. They had been turn'd out of their Lodgings, the Landlord having seiz'd the Goods for non-payment of the Rent. The Woman and Child being turn'd in the Street, and not knowing what to do or where to stay, the poor Man, out of love to his Wife and Child, intreated the Officers in the Tower, to allow his Wife to stay two or three Nights in the Barracks with him, till he had some time to look out and provide her another Lodging; the Gentlemen out of good Nature granted him this favour, and she had not been with him above two or three Nights, when he fell into this fatal misfortune, occasioned by his unfortunate Wife. The Account he gave of this sad accident, was to this purpose. On Tuesday the 3d of September last, he went with his Wife and Child, from the Tower to Fleet Lane , to visit his Wies Brother, who keeps a Gin Shop; and after they had drunk liberally there, they went to Bartholomew Fair , where they drank

much more, and towards Night, being very much intoxicated, they return'd to the Tower, where Blunt being in Liquor, went immediately to his Bed in the Barracks, but his Wife sitting up a little after him, she fell a Quarrelling and Scolding with another Soldier's Wife; this made such a Noise in the Barracks, that complaint was made to the Captain of the Guard, who ordered the Serjeant to put out the Woman, for avoiding disturbance in that Place: She call'd out to her Husband, Joe, will you suffer me to be turn'd out at this time of Night, it being between Nine and Ten; he awaking out of his Sleep, said or swore, he would not suffer the Serjeant to do so; and as the Serjeant threaten'd to kick her down Stairs, he answer'd, if he did so, he should be sure to kick him down after her; and then he took down his Gun lying or hanging by the Bed, and presented it to his Serjeant, who offering to advance and take the Gun from him; he swore, if he came forward one step, he was a dead Man; then the Serjeant, by advice also of another who stood behind him, retir'd and told the Captain of the Guard; who immediately order'd Corporal Adair, who officiated as Serjeant, to take four Men and bring Blunt to him; the Orders were instantly obey'd, and as Robert Adair came in, Blunt said, take care Bob, and that moment his Piece went off, and shot the innocent Man through the Heart. Joseph Blunt alledg'd, that he threw away the Piece, and that it went off as if it had been by accident, but the true way of telling the matter was, that he shot the Musket, and then threw it out of his Hand, as some Days before he died, he freely confess'd, and own'd himself directly guilty of Murder; only he said, which may be true, that he had no malice against the Man, and that his letting off the Piece was an inconsiderate Action, proceeding from his being very much in Drink, though others did not observe it, for he had drank exceeding hard that Day. He was very ignorant, and I endeavoured to instruct him, as the shortness of Time, or his slow capacity, would allow He cried and lamented very much, declar'd himself most penitent for all the Sins of his Life, particularly the heinous crime of Murder. He express'd a Sense and hope of his obtaining Mercy from God, through the merits and blood of Jesus Christ; and he died in peace with all the World.

John Cannon , was indicted for assaulting and carnally knowing Mary Fosset , Spinster , an Infant of 9 Years of Age, July the 12th.

3. John Cannon , 28 Years of Age, of honest Parents, in the County of Antrim , in the Kingdom of Ireland , had no Education at School. When of Age, his Father sent him to Dublin , where he serv'd a Weaver, as Apprentice , six Years and some Months honestly, and then he serv'd in another

Family six Years more, by way of Journeyman , and about a Year after that, by Persuasion of a Companion of his own Business, he came to London , and serv'd as a Journeyman to Mrs. Fosset, till such Time, as he ravish'd her young Daughter, of nine Years old, as was sworn against him. He was of the Romish Religion , but very ignorant, only he said, he would die in the way he was educated. As to the Fact he was convicted of, he inclin'd not to give positive Answers, but said he did not ravish the Girl. I told him, whether she consented or not, it was look'd upon as a Rape, and made Felony. He denied the Thing but faintly, and told a Story of three or four Shillings about a Loom, for which his Mistress and some other Body bore him ill-will; I told him, that was a trifling Excuse, and it was not possible that any-body would seek his Life for so small a Matter. He spoke very bad English, and was always ready to tell some out of the way Story, and nothing to the Purpose; but still, upon the main, he denied the Fact, tho one Time he said, he was never Guilty of any notorious Fact or Crime, excepting the one he suffer'd for; yet he still waver'd and gave confus'd Answers. I told him, he was oblig'd to glorify God, and discharge his own Conscience, by a plain Confession. He said, he told the Truth, and could not say otherways than he did, but still alledg'd they bore him Spite. He own'd, that he had been a debauch'd Fellow among notorious Women, and that he sometimes drank too much, and lost or squander'd away his Money foolishly, but that he was always honest in his Dealings, and never wrong'd any-body that Way. He behav'd quietly in Chapel, and at other Times he was very poor and miserable, and had no Person coming after him, or giving him any Thing. He hop'd for Salvation through Christ, declar'd himself penitent for his many Offences, and his naughty Life, and that he freely forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

William Sidwell , alias Robinson , was indicted for assaulting Elizabeth , the Wife of Edward Woodnot in AngelCourt, near the Highway, in the Parish of St. Margaret's Westminster , putting her in fear, and taking from her a Cloath Cloak, Value one Shilling, the Goods of the Husband, Edward Woodnot , May the 11th.

4. William Sidwell , alias Robinson , 46 Years of Age, of honest respected Parents about the Town, who were willing to give him good Education, but he was unwilling to receive the same; for both when his Parents were alive, and after their decease, having near Relations desirous to give him Christian and good Education, he would scarce ever go to School, and when he did, he minded nothing of his Business, and would never learn any thing, either out of obstinacy of Temper, or out of a wicked Disposition, and partly because of a certain

imbecility of mind; for he was a very weak foolish Man. He was of no Handicrafts-Trade, but went to Sea when his Friends could get him to do nothing at home; but being of a vicious Disposition when at home, he could not hold his Hands from picking and stealing, so in the Year 1719, he cut through the Back of a Coach in Pall-mall , and run away with the Peruke of Colonel Negus, Value six Pound, for which Robbery he was convicted capitally, and transported for fourteen Years: He did not return to England till last Winter, when he came in the Station of a Cook of a Ship , and did the Robbery for which he died. He confess'd his taking the Woman's Cloak, and that he design'd to rob her of all she had if not prevented, and that he had Pistols, or at least one Pistol about him in order to do Mischeif, and if Providence had not been favourable, Mr. Hilliard might have been shot upon his discharging the Pistol at him when he was apprehended. He was a perpetual Plague to his Friends and Relations, who would have done for him, but at last he wearied them quite out with his repeated Villanies. He spent above Twenty Two Pounds in a few Weeks last Spring, which he received of his Wages and Part of it from a Relation, who offered and put him in a Letter-Will for the one half of all, if he would be but good, but this Condition he would not comply with, and all being lost or spent the Beginning of May last, he was taken up the 11th of the said Month for the above Street-Robbery, committed upon Mistress Woodnot, sent to Newgate , capitally convicted and executed. He behav'd always well under Sentence, attended regularly in Chapel, sate very quiet, and took good heed both to Prayers and Exhortations. He frequently gave me many Blessings for the Prayers, godly Exhortations and Advices I gave him, and other Kindnesses I did him; and sometimes he took me by the Hand, as I past by him and kiss'd it, particularly that Morning he died. He complain'd upon his being so long under Sentence; I desired him to submit patiently to the Will of God, in Consideration of his great Sins and Crimes, he said, he did so, and heartily forgave every Body. He declared his Faith in Christ, his hearty Repentance for all his Sins, and that he died in peace with all the World.

George Richardson , Lawrence Grace , and John Smithson , were indicted for assaulting John Gordon in Lincoln'sInn-Fields , putting him in fear, and taking from him a Hat, a Wig, and half a Guinea and 5 d. July 28.

5 George Richardson , past fifteen Years of Age, of honest and reputable Parents, who gave him good Education at School, in reading, writing, Arithmetick, Latin, &c. to prepare him for Business, but this he undervalued, and prefered the Company of BlackGuards, particularly Watson the Evidence, to his Father and Mother's House and Company, where he was

kept as well and tenderly as any Body could desire. He apply'd himself to Pick-pocketing, petty Thefts and such things, so that his Parents deeming irreclaimable, put him to Sea , and he went a Voyage to Jamaica , and another Voyage or two; but when at home he still apply'd himself to his old Company, particularly of Watson's, whom he blam'd for all his Misfortunes by his bad Example and wicked Counsel, and he run-away from his Father, who could never meet with him nor see him for sometime, till he saw him in Newgate for the Robbery which he died for, and then in a most miserable Condition; which Carriage of his gave his Parents great Uneasiness. He confess'd that he had been a very wicked irreclaimable Boy, and most ungrateful to his tender indulgent Parents: And as to the Robbery he was convicted of, he said, it was true as Watson the Evidence said of him, that he did not take Mr. Gordon's Hat and Wig, but otherways that he did not consent to the Robbery, he pretended no such thing, but own'd himself Guilty with the rest. He acknowledg'd that he was a vicious Boy as far as his Age would allow him. One told me, that a few Days before he was taken up, he was walking towards Bridewell in Company with Watson; and his younger Brother accidently meeting them, said to this effect, Pray, Brother; don't go with such vile Company, but come home to my Father and Mother who desires to see you, he answer'd, When you come home, pray don't tell my Father and Mother that you saw me. He always behav'd well in Chapel and at other times; declar'd, that he was heartily sorry for his sinful Life, and repented of all his Sins, and died in peace with all Mankind.

The following Prayer the aforegoing Malefactor gave to the Ordinary.

" O Almighty and most righteous " Judge, I meekly receive my " Sentence, as the due Reward of my " Sins; but as mine Iniquity brings on " me this untimely and shameful Death, " O let my true Repentance, thro my " dear Lord and Saviour's Merits, secure the Forgiveness of my Sins, " and bring me to everlasting Life. " O sweet Jesus, who didst not disdain " to cast an Eye on the penitent Thief " on the Cross, despise not me, who " am now to suffer a like ignominious " Death, and, I hope, truly to repent " me of my Sins, and fix all my " Hopes on thee in my Distress, as he " did in his. Thou who for the Sins " of Others, didst thy self hang on " the cursed Tree, by the Blood of " thy Cross, save me, who am justly " condemned for my own Sins, in thy " Merits do I trust, into thy merciful " Hands I commend my Spirit. O " rescue my departing Soul from eternal Misery, forgive me in the abundant Riches of thy Mercy, and save " me, a great and wretched, but a " penitent and contrite Sinner. Let " the Example of my Fall be a warn

ing to Others, that they come not " into the same Condemnation; and " tho I taste thy Justice in my ignominious Death, let me find the " Sweetness of thy Mercy after it, Amen, blessed Jesus, Amen, Amen.

6. Laurence Grace , about 22 Years of Age, born at Dublin of honest respected Parents, who gave him (as I was informed) the best of Education in Reading, Writing, Latin, &c. but this was what he minded least; for being of a bad Disposition, he inclin'd only to the meanest and worst of Company, and vilest Practices.

He did not incline, or he was of such a roving Temper, that his Friends did not think proper to put him to any Business at home; but thinking the Sea would tame him, they sent him to Sea , and he was some Years employ'd in this Way of Business, and married a Wife in his own Country, but without Consent or Knowledge of his Friends, as he said, and she follow'd him to London . His Relations, for a good Time past, knew nothing what was become of him. He confess'd his Crime in robbing Mr. Gordon, only he complain'd of some Circumstances, and some small Things in the Fact, that they did not give a just Account of them. He own'd, that he had been a most naughty young Man, with lewd Women, in Drinking, Thieving, privately stealing, robbing in the Streets, and such Vices as that kind of People are liable to. He had been at Lisbon , Gibraltar , up the Mediterranean , and in other Places of the World; and his last Voyage was in America , or the West-Indies , from whence he came lately to London , and having receiv'd his Wages, he soon spent them, and then he went out with a Pack of notorious Rogues, upon Thieving and Robbing, and this Course of Life he did not give over, till in a short Time he was brought to condign Punishment. He wept and lamented, when I spoke to him. He was of the Communion of the Church of Rome. He behav'd modestly and well in Chapel, and on all Occasions. I exhorted him to Repentance, and a firm Resolution of new Obedience, and to rely only upon the Mercy of God, in and through the Merits of Jesus Christ. He declar'd, that he hop'd for Salvation only by Christ; that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, particularly those he suffer'd so much Shame and Sorrow for; and that he heartily forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

7. John Smithson , about 18 Years of Age, born in Town of honest Parents, put to School and taught Reading, Writing, &c. and instructed in Principles of Religion. When of Age, they put him to a Watchmaker , with whom he stay'd four Years, but being of perverse Inclinations, he did not keep to his Business, and at last he left his Master altogether, loving the Company of Blackguards, common Thieves and Robbers, above any Thing else: This

Course of Life reduc'd him to most miserable Poverty which occasion'd his falling into bad Practices, and lost his Character and Credit with all honest People, who no sooner knew what he was, but they refus'd to do any Thing for him, or to employ him in any Business. His Father some Years ago went to Ireland, and resides there as Butler to a Gentleman, who took him along with him. The Mother stay'd behind, but John had no regard to her Advice, and did what he pleased. He never went to Church, unless to do Mischief, in picking Pockets, and such indirect unaccountable Actions. He was at last taken up, and put in Bridewel two or three Times, and in Newgate , from whence he was sent to Essex , tried for his Life, and acquitted.

He was also Evidence against William West and Andrew Curd , for a Burglary in February last, and in May following, he and others were tried for robbing John Violane of a Hat, for stealing John Frazier 's Coat, and for stealing a Gown and Petticoat of another; in those three Trials Thomas Whitby was an Evidence against them, and they were acquitted. His Mother about this time went to Ireland , being sent for by his Father, but John preferred his rambling way about Town to the Company of his Parents. He got into a Gentleman's Service to keep a Running-Horse at Hackney , but some Body informing the Gentleman, that he had been tried for his Life in Essex and at London , and that he was a notorious Thief and Robber, he did not think fit to keep such a dangerous Guest, but immediately discharged him his Service. He having nothing to do, went about the Town as a Vagabond and idle Boy, having no way to live, but by Theft and Robbery. He offered to sell himself to the Plantations a great many times, but could not find a Buyer, because he was of no Trade. He own'd that he was a notorious Shop-Lifter, and guilty of some Street-Robberies but not many; and the Robbery he was convicted of he denied, alledging that Watson did not deal fair with him, in putting him in that Informatio, though he acknowledg'd that he had done other wicked Actions in his Company. I intreated him to make a free Confession, and not to go to Eternity with a Lye in his Mouth, which would aggravate his Condemnation, in adding Sin to Sin. He persisted in his denial; he behav'd well in Chapel, and was very attentive both to prayers and Exhortations. He was very ignorant, and I endeavoured to instruct him, as the Shortness of Time would allow. He declared his Faith in

Christ, his Repentance for all his Sins, and died in peace with all the World.

Jonas Pearson , was indicted for stealing a brown Gelding, Value eight pound, the property of Benjamin Wilkins , Aug. 31.

Jonas Pearson , thirty five Years of Age, born in Yorkshire of honest parents: His Father a Farmer, educated him at School in reading, writing, and cyphering, to fit him for Business, and had him instructed in Christian principles. When of Age, he went Apprentice to a Button-Maker , and served out his Time honestly, and then he wrought by himself, married a Wife and kept House, or sometimes Lodgings, in St. Margaret's parish, Westminster He said, That he was always honest, and liv'd well, and maintain'd his Family by his Business. As for the Horse, he said, he bought him in Holburn , and that a Coach-man who was Witness was down at Tunbridge , and that the other Witness an Ostler about Bishopgate-street , durst not come to the Court for fear of his loosing his place, he not having Money to send them Subpenas These look'd like feign'd Excuses, and he said to the same purpose in Court at his Trial, though scarce any Body could believe him. I bid him consider, that it was not Man but God he had to deal with, and that his telling a Lye would provoke God to hurry him from temporal to eternal punishment. After all the Arguments I could use to bring him to a confession, he persisted inflexible. He said, that he never was wicked in his life, but that he liv'd regularly and soberly, went to church, and that he had taken the Sacrament some times. In Chapel he behav'd modestly, and (to appearance) devoutly. Declared his Hopes of Salvation in and through Faith in Christ Jesus, that he was a sincere penitent for all his Sins, and that he bore no Grudge or ill Will to any person, but gave every Body as he expected Forgiveness from God.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

" THEY all appeared very " devout in Prayer to God, " to receive their Souls in Mercy. " Robinson only said, he forgave " every Body, and expressed his " great thankfulness for the care " I took of him. Richard Lamb , " put me in mind of what is told " already, that he never had any " unlawful communication with " M. B. and that her Neighbours " ought not to entertain any ill " thoughts of her upon his Account. He and Joseph Blunt , " had no more to add to their former Confessions. They blest me " for their care I had taken in " Praying for, exhorting and instructing them. A Friend of " George Richardson 's came up to " the Cart, and desir'd him to take " notice to the People, that no " body had any Confessions, but " what he had given him; this he " did not do, perhaps being conscious that he had told me several " things before, and therefore he " was in the right not to tell a " Lye. The rest of them only " adher'd to their former Confessions. After I had return'd to " the Coach, George Richardson " caus'd to be handed a written " Prayer (which he made use of) " to me, in order to be publish'd " When Prayers were near ended, " Richard Lamb desir'd me to " Sing a part of the Lamentation " of a Sinner, which was done " with the Doxology.

" They all went off the Stage, " crying to God to have Mercy " upon them, and Lord Jesus receieve my Spirit.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is publish'd, Vol. II.

(Price 3 s. 6 d.)

With a Frontispiece of Catherine Hayes , of the Contrivance of the Murder of her Husband John Hayes ,

THE Lives of the most remarkable Criminals who have been condemned and executed, either for the Highway, Street Robberies, Burglaries, Murders, or other capital Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Time: Containing particularly the Lives of the famous JONATHAN WILD , Edward Burnworth , alias Frazier , Blewit, Berry, Dickenson, Majorum and Higgs, for the Murder of Mr. Ball in St. George's-Fields ; Catherine Hayes , for the barbarous Murder of her Husband; Forster Snow , for the Murder of a Man in his House in Holborn; Thomas Billings , concern'd with Catherine Hayes in the Murder of Mr. Hayes; Thomas Smith , a Highwayman; and Capt. Jean, for the Murder of his Cabin-Boy, &c. &c. &c.

Printed and sold by John Applebee in Bolt Court , Fleet-street ; A Bettesworth and C. Hitch, at the Red Lyon in Pater-noster Row; J. Pemberton, at the Golden Buck against St. Dunstan's Church; J. Isted, at the Golden Ball near Chancery Lane, Fleet-street; E. Symon, at the Royal Exchange; R. Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Amen-Corner, near Pater-noster Row; W. Mears, at the Lamb, the Corner of Bell-Savage Inn on Ludgate-Hill; Richard Wellington , at the Dolphin and Crown ; and Mrs. Dodd, at the Peacock without Temple-Bar.

Where may be had, Vol. I.

N. B. Vol. III. is in the Press, and will be publish'd with all convenient Expedition.

The Publick may depend on the Accounts publish'd in this Work, as containing a just and faithful Narration of the Conduct of these unhappy Persons, and $word$ true State of their respective Crimes, without any Additions of feigned and romantick Adventures, calculated meerly to entertain the Curiosity of the Reader.

ELectuarium Mirabile; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed, and Say, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and eaie in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases. To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author, Dr. C A M, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden Ball in Bow Church yard, Cheapside, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requesite; in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy shops, Book sellers shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with on any Occasion. And tho' by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dea in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price s His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts. viz. I On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility, II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaeas, or Clap, III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox, &c Price 2 s. His Essay on the Rheumatism and Gout. Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Dissertation on ee Pox. Dedicated to Sir Hans Sloane . Price 1 s. 6 d. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhill, E. Midwinter in St. Paul's Churchyard, and at the Author's House before mentioned.

Dr. Nelson's most wonderful PANACEA, or, the CONFIRMD VENEREAL DISEASE, And all the Relicks or Remains of it in the Blood which it infallibly eradicates, tho' of ever so long standing, it having been above thirty Years experienc'd to be the only safe and sure Remedy for that hateful Distemper, that was ever known or discovered.

IT curing so easily, and insensibly, as to any Disorder it gives, Confinement it requires, or Suspicion it occasions, that it is admir'd and recommended by all that have taken it, for it neither purges, vomits, nor salivates, but cures by its Alterative, Deobstruent Antivenereal Qualities, in so much that Children, and the weakest and most tender or crazy constitution'd People may take it at all times of the Year, and go about with it as if they had taken nothing as may likewise those who have been brought near the Grave, by repeated unsuccessful Salivations, or other violent, or too frequent Purgations, or Vomits; for it restores as well as clears the Blood, Head, and whole Habit, of all the lurking poisonous Taint, and Mercury ho' never so secretly lodg'd in the Body; wherefore et none of those unfortunate People dispair, but try t, and they will be comfortably convinc'd of the Truth of what is here said of it.

Persons who are pox'd to the last Degree, their whole Mass of Blood being contaminated, aud have been old that nothing but a Salivation would Cure them, tho' they Labour under tormenting Pains in the Head, Limbs o Joints; or have breakings out Scabs Blotches, Bioles, or Spots; or have Swellings, Nodes Sores or, Ulcers, either in their Throat, Nose, or elsewhere, with weariness in the Limbs, Faintness and Weakness of the whole Body, &c. may intirely rely upon it, only, that according to the Degree of the Infection, they must take it and continue it for a longer or shorter Time.

Such as have only some Relicks of the Disease, or but suspect that their Blood has got a Smatch of the Taint, by some unusual Uneasinesses about them, which they now and then feel, either from ill manag'd Claps, or other doubtful Cures, should never venture to marry if they are single, nor meddle with their Wives if marry'd, till they are sure they are safe, as they most certainly will be, upon their only taking a Pot or two of it.

It is also exceeding pleasant to take, as well as delightful in its effects; and cleanses, Nourishes and Restores, the foulest, most weakened and worn out Constitutions

Price 5 s. the Tin pot, prepar'd only by the Doctor abovesaid, and left by him, at Mr. Isted's Bookseller at the Golden Ball, near St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet street; where it may be had, by any Messenger, ready sealed up with Directions how to take it, by only asking for a 5 s. Pot of the Panacea.

Next Week will be publish'd,

Dedicated to the Worshipful Sir Richard Brocas, Knt. and Alderman of the City of LONDON.)

A Book very proper to be given by all Parents, Guardians and others; to Young People when they place them out in the World.

THE APPRENTICES Companion and faithful Monitor; directing him in the several Branches of his Duty to GOD, his Master and Himself; and shewing the fatal Consequences of his Neglect thereof: Digested under the following Heads, viz. 1. Of his Duty to GOD, of Prayer, and receiving the blessed Sacrament, &c. 2. Of his Duty to his Master, of Obedience, Faithfulness, Diligence, &c. 3. Of his Duty to himself, of Sobriety, Humility, Conversation, &c. with Prayers for Morning and Evening, &c. particularly adapted; Compos'd by a Divine of the Church of ENGLAND, for the Instruction of his own Children, and now made Publick for the Good of others. Wherewith shall a Young Man cleanse his Way? By taking heed thereto according to thy Word, Psal. 119. v. 9

Printed for T. Worrall, at Judge COKE'S Head against St. Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street. Price 1 s. 6 d. Bound, or 15 s. per Dozen to those who give them away.

