THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, AND Last Speeches Of the Persons who were Executed at the End of Salisbury-Court in Fleet-street, LONDON, On Friday the 21st of September, 1716, FOR THE RIOT Committed in that Court on Tuesday the 24th of July last.

London Printed, and are to be Sold by J. MORPHEW, near Stationers-Hall. 1716.

THE Ordinary of Newgate's ACCOUNT, &c.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Thursday the 6th, Friday the 7th, Saturday the 8th, and Monday the 10th of September, 1716, Thirty-two Persons, viz. 20 Men and 12 Women, who were Try'd for several capital Crimes, being found Guilty, did accordingly receive Sentence of Death; together with another Person, who having once obtain'd a Pardon, and since forfeited it, was call'd down to his former Judgment. Of these Malefactors, viz. 10 Women pregnant, and 7 Men, being Repriev'd, (which Mercy I pray GOD give them Grace to improve unto his Glory) and 11 Executed last Wednesday, these remaining Rioters are now order'd for their Execution.

On the Lord's Day the 9th instant, I preach'd to them and the others, both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, upon part of the Second Lesson for that Morning-Service, viz. Matt. 10. 7. (the Words of Our Blessed Saviour to his Disciples) And as ye go, preach, saying, The Kingdom of Heaven is at hand.

And upon the last Lord's Day, the 16th instant, I preach'd to them again, both in the Morning and Afternoon, on Exod. 20. 13. Thou shalt not kill.

Of which Sermons I have already given an Account in my Paper of Wednesday last (together with that of the Malefactors that were then executed) whereto I refer the Reader.

As to these Persons in particular, who are now to suffer, I represented to them the Heinousness of their Crime, so as to bring them (if possible) to a suitable degree of Repen

tance; shewing them, That such a great Sin (as this was) must needs be greatly repented of, if the Person guilty of it expects ever to obtain GOD's Pardon and Salvation.

In my private Discourses with them, they gave me such an Account of their respective Circumstances (both as to their Fact and Repentance) as here follows.

1. George Purchase , condemn'd for being concern'd in the Riot in Salisbury-Court , Fleetstreet , on Tuesday the 24th of July last. He said, he was 23 Years of age, born at Puddle-Dock , London : That he serv'd an Apprentiship of 7 Years with a Shoemaker in Salisbury-Court : That when his Time was expir'd he became a Journeyman to his said Master, and never did an ill thing before this Fact for which he is condemn'd, and which he rashly committed, not considering then (as I endeavour'd now to make him sensible of) the Unlawfulness and dismal Consequences of such a Rebellious Sedition as that was, which so much tended not only to the Ruin of private Persons, but to the great Disturbance of, and Dishonour to, the whole Government. I representing both to him and his Fellow-Criminals and Sufferers, what perfect Nonsense (not to say worse) it was for them to cry-out, High-Church and Ormond; and what an unheard of Impudence and Disloyalty, what an enormous Wickedness and Impiety they all discover'd to be in their Nature, by their uttering these and the like Rebellious and Malicious Expressions; Do Hannoverian, King George, Down with the Mugg-house, &c. by which they excited and stirr'd up both themselves and others, to kill and plunder, to set the Nation in a Flame, and, in a word, to do all the Mischief they could, and to which (no doubt) they were greatly encourag'd underhand by such as neither fear GOD, nor honour the KING; nor indeed have any true Love for, or Regard to the Lives of those poor silly Tools they made use of in that Riot.

Upon this my Observation and Admonition (endeavouring to convince them, that they could have no good Intent in doing what they did, but quite contrary) this George Purchase acknowledg'd it to be a heinous Crime, himself greatly Guilty, and his Sentence just; praying GOD to forgive him this and all other his Sins, and have Mercy upon his Soul.

2. Thomas Beane , condemn'd for the same Fact. He said, he was 22 years of age; born in Salisbury-Court , where his Father formerly kept the Ship Tavern: That he was 5 Years at Sea, as Servant to the Purser of a Man of War , whom he serv'd the last of those 5 Years in the capacity of his Steward: That he was a Servant to some Gentlemen unhappily engag'd in the late Rebellion at Preston, since they were in Newgate , and not before. As to this Fact he was condemn'd for, he confest his guilt of it, acknowledging in particular that he carried part of the Mug-house Sign about the Street, and at last threw it into a Cart; but withal endeavour'd to palliate it, saying, That he inconsiderately join'd in that Riot, the dismal Consequences whereof he did not then apprehend, but now (to his great Sorrow) knew the Mischief he had thereby involv'd himself in.

3. William Price , condemn'd also for the same Riot. He said, he was 21 years of age, born in the Parish of St. Andrew Holbourn : That he was bound Apprentice to a Sword-Cutler , and had now serv'd 4 years of his Time, and never committed any Crime before this Riot hapned. He confess'd, That, hearing there was a great Concourse of People in Salisbury-Court , he presently ran thither, but said withal, That it was with no ill Intent, but out of meer Curiosity; however, when he was come he join'd with others there, and assisted them in demolishing Mr. Read's Mug-house, destroying his Goods, and crying, high Church and Ormond, &c. Upon which Confession of his, I shewing him the heinousness and mischievous Consequences of that wicked Fact, he began to be sensible, and said, he heartily repented of it, praying GOD to forgive him this, and all other his Sins. He also was much concern'd to hear that his poor Mother had been misrepresented by some Persons, who had reported, that she us'd no Endeavours to save his Life; for he was fully satisfied she did that to her utmost.

4. Richard Price , condemn'd likewise for that Fact. He said, he was 20 Years of age, born at Llangdavery in Caermarthenshire in Wales , where having serv'd his Time with a Taylor , he came up to London , and here wrought Journey-work , and never engag'd in any ill thing before this hapned; adding, That accidentally passing by that Place where the Tumult was, he unhappily fell in among 'em, not considering the Unlawfulness and ill Consequence of such a Fact. He was very ignorant, and could not so much as read, which was a great disadvantage to him under these his melancholy Circumstances. I endeavour'd to make him sensible of his great Offence, and to beg Pardon for it, and all other his Sins; which he accordingly did with Tears.

5. John Love , condemn'd for being concern'd with the 'forementioned Rioters. He said, he was about 16 years of age, born in White-Fryers , London : That he had learnt to make Buttons , but his chief Employment was, the helping of Bargemen and Lightermen to unlade their Boats . He further said, That he never was (nor ever deserv'd to be) brought before Justice till this Riot happen'd, in which

he unfortunately involv'd himself, without considering what he then did, or what might follow thereupon. I found him a very ignorant Person, who could not read at all, and hardly knew any thing of Religion; and he was, for some Days past, so very sick and weak, that I was forced to attend him in the Condemn'd Hold; so all I could do there was, to pray for him.

At the Place of their Execution, whither they were this Day carried in two Carts from Newgate , I gave them my last Attendance, exhorting them still more and more to repent of this and all other their Sins. I pray'd and sung some Penitential Psalms with them, and made them rehearse the Apostles Creed. They desir'd, that all young Men and others would take Warning by them, and learn Wisdom from their Folly. They also desir'd the Standers-by to pray for their departing Souls: They begg'd Pardon of GOD and of the KING, and of all they had offended; and declar'd, That they dy'd in Charity with all Men; wishing that none would be so unhappy as to follow them in this, or any other Evil Course, that might bring them to an Untimely End. After this I pray'd with 'em again, That God would grant 'em the Pardon of their Sins, and the Salvation of their Souls; that they might have a happy Passage out of this miserable Life, and be admitted into a State of Everlasting Bliss and Glory. Then I withdrew from them, and left 'em to their private Devotions, for which they had some Time allotted them: When that was expir'd, the Cart drew away, and they were launch'd into Eternity, they all the while praying to GOD to have Mercy on them, and receive their Souls.

But before I left them, Thomas Beane deliver'd a Paper to me, a True Copy whereof is as follows, viz.

THis is to satisfy the Publick, That I never was acquainted with the two Gentlemen, Prisoners now in Newgate, mention'd in the Sessions-Paper, wherein I am also mention'd as their Servant; but was only hired to them as a Weekly Servant, at Five Shillings per Week, about Five Weeks before I was apprehended; and as I am a dying Man, I do declare these Gentlemen did not kno any thing of my going upon that Affair. Tho. Beane .

Sept. 21st. 1716.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Persons, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate .

Friday, Sept. 21st 1716.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

WHereas on Monday Night the 17th instant, a Male Child of about four Days old was dropt in Furnival's-Inn Gateway, in the Parish of St. Andrew, Holbourn: London. If any Person will discover the Father or Mother, or Person who dropt such Child, so that the Parish may be discharg'd, shall receive forty Shillings, as a Reward, from Mr. Francis Clarke the present Churchwarden .

In a few Days will be publish'd,

THe Third and Last Volume of Posthumous Works written by Mr. Samuel Butler , Author of Hudibras; part written in the time of the Usurpation, and the rest in the Reign of K. Charles II. To which is added, The Coffin for the Good Old Cause; publish'd just before the Restoration. By Sir Samuel Lake . Printed for S. Briscoe.

