THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Six Malefactors, who were Executed on Monday the 1st of this Instant February, at Tyburn.

AT the KING’S Commission of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, and Goal Delivery, of Newgate, Held (before the Right Hon. Sir George Merttins , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Lord Chief Baron Eyre, Mr. Justice Dormer, Mr. Serjeant Raby, and several of His Majesty’s Justices of the Peace, for the City of London and county of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Friday, Saturday, Monday, and Tuesday being the 15th, 16th, 18th and 19th of January last, in the eleventh Year of His Majesty’s Reign; Nine Men were Convicted of Capital Offences, and receiv’d Sentence of Death accordingly; two of whom we hear are Reprieved, in order for Transportation, viz. John Map , and Richard Blackburn and the third to have his Majesty’s free Pardon, viz. Alexander Warren .

After Sentence pass’d, and they return’d to the Condemn’d Hold, they all appear’d seemingly easy under their then unhappy Circumstance; all, and severally, owning the Justice of their Sentence, by a frank Acknowledgment of those Crimes for which they were shortly to suffer in the Loss of their Lives, except John Hewlet , who in great Resentment and Passion, always charg’d the Prosecutor’s Evidence with horrid Perjury; alledging his Innocence (as to the Murder of Joseph Candy ) to be the same as of a Person’s who had never seen him. At several Times they had private Instructions in the Condemn’d Hold, on Account of Two or Three whomillness prevented from coming to Chappel.

On the Sunday after Condemnation they were admonish’d from the Words of God spoken by the Prophet Isaiah, recorded in the 55 Chapter and the 7th Verse. Let the Wicked forsake his Way, and the unrighteous Man his Thoughts, and let him turn into the Lord for be will have Mercy upon him,

and to our God for he will abundantly pardon him. From which Words we first shew’d the Nature and Extent of a true return unto God (or in other Words) a sincere Repentance. 2dly, shew’d the manner of the Performance of it to render it acceptable to God. 3dly, We brought to their View the grand Motives and Encouragements for then gaging in this great, but advantagesous (and indeed) necessary Work and for our Conclusion of the Whole we left them with these ops, that whereas (they by an ill conduct of Life had brought them selves to that sad Pass, tha human Life had so far taken Cognzance of their Crimes, that nthing can satisfie it but the loss of their mortal Lives) they still h a Aylu a anctuary to fly unto, to escape the Death of the im and better Part, of them, as long as the Words of the Text, with t th Sheep, the lost Piece of Money, and the returning P stand upon Record in Sacred Writing; not to mention the Penitent Thief on the Cross, or those who had loiter’d and idled away eleven Hours of the Day, and receiv’d a Prmium equal with those who had born the Burden and Heat of it.

On the Sunday before the Execution, we instructed them from the Words of the Royal Psalmist, in his 7th Psalm, and the 12th Verse. God is a Righteous Judge, Strong and patient, and God is provoked every Day. From these Words, we first prov’d the Existence of a God from concurrent Texts of sacred Scripture, and that this God will be our Judge. 2dly, We consider’d separately the several Attributes the Prophet gives unto our Judge, that he is a righteous and Just Judge; that he is a strong and powerful Judge. From the Consideration of which, we inferr’d the Madness, Ingratitude, and inexcusableness of the persevering hardned Sinner, letting them know for a farewell, that if the Justice and Power of God do not Awe, nor his Patience and long Suffering lead Men to Repentance, they can expect nothing less than the Experience of that Anathema subsequent to my Text. If a Man will not turn, God will whet his Sword, be hath bent his Bow and made it ready, he hath prepared for him the Instruments of Death, he ordained his Arrows against the Persecutors; or in the Languate of the Gospel; Indignation and Wrath, Tribulation and Anguish, upon every Soul of Man that doth Evil, upon the Jew first, and also of the Gentile.

The Account of these Persons under Sentence of Death.

JOHN HEWLET , OF THE Parish of St Andrew’s Holborn , was Indicted for the Murder of Joseph Candy , by giving him with a Staff, a mortal Bruise on the Heat, on the 26th of December last, of which he instantly Died; upon hearing the Evidence for the Deceas’d and he having nothing material to urge in his own Defence, but his bare Denial of the Fact; the Jury in Strength of the Circumstances, convicted him of that capital Offence, and he was Sentenc’d accordingly.

When come into the Condemn’d Hold, he was there visited the Night following his Condemnation, on the Score of his Inability of coming to Chappel; where, and when, he (when being show’d the Crimson Nature of Murder, with the several aggravating Circumstances of it) regardless of

the Monitor and Admonition, gave Reins to his Passion, and in it inveigh’d against the Evidences to such a thoughtless Degree, that he wish'd God would revenge the wrong done to him, by some signal a terrible Judgment upon them; and in case that did fail, he hop'd that after Death he should be able to come and render them a Visit to revenge himself of them by Apparition. He was born in the City of Coventry in Warwickshire , Son of Richard Hewlet , Butcher of the same: Being furnish’d with a competency of Learning for a Trade, his Father bound him an Apprentice to a Butcher near Leicester , where being weary of' the Yoke of Serviude, and able in Stature and Strength to serve his Crown and Country; he thought fit to exchange his Employ, before the Expiration of his Time, for a Millirary one, and so enters into the first Regiment of His Majesty's Foot Guards , which was then engag’d in' the Service with his late Gracious Majesty King William, in Brabant and Flanders , where in the Battle sought between the Allies and the French at Steenkirque, in which his Colonel Robinson, then Commander of his Company, was Shot dead; he receiv'd a final Shot in his Neck, and another in his Groin, which he made appear by visibly exposing of them. Another Wound he receiv'd in his Head in the Affair of London, which fractur’d the Skll, and laid him under a Necessity, of its being Trapan’d, to which (as he said) he ow’d the weakness of his Brain, insomuch, that upon the least Ruffle or Disorder o Mind, or taking the finallest Quantity of Liquors, he become a Subject to Passion, event to the Mastery of his Reason. And being asked whether it might not be probable that he should commit a Crime of that Nature for which he Died, in one of those Extasies, reply’d No 1 God knows me to be Innocent, but God forgive me, I was in Drink that Night, but however I saw a Man strike the Deceas’d on the Head with a Staff but he did not think it proper to make mention of his Name. After he had compreated seventeen Campaigns in Flanders and Spain , return’d too England , and at the Peace concluded in Her late most Gracious Majesty’s Reigns was discharg’d; then enter’d into a Gentleman’s Service , where he chane’d to Marry with his Countrywoman, by whom he had Nine Children tho’ he had surviv’d them all. And moreover he said, what the greatest additional to my Suffering is, that my Wife is now at the Point of Death, and of have too much Reason to charge my self with the hast’ing of it, by my rough and unfaithful dealing with her. A night or two before his Exclude on came a Person, who’tis suppos’d was an Evidence against him at his Tryal; tho’ the Man came to visit him in the Dress of a Friends, and offer’d to serve him in his Powers, he did not forbear to treat him with very unbecoming Language; ay even to threaten him with Murder if Possibly he could have access to him; in one Word, his whole Behaviour whilst under Sentence. (till the Saturday next preceding his Execution) was little else but of a Person Destrious; expressing little or no Concerts for any thing but the leaving of his Wife, and some few old Acquaintances he had in Warwickshire. On the Saturday being reminded of the near approach of his. Suffering he then began to have a Sence of it, and a Concern what might be the Consequence of it; being admonished to prepare for the reception of the Blessed Sacrament; he coolloy own’d he had been a very great Sinner, and hoped that would be no bar to his admittance to the Fable; but being inform’d would not, he express’d his Joy at it, ad said he would contribute his utinost to a Preparationfor it.

JOSEPH PICKEN , was Indicted for assaulting Charles Cooper , on the Highway, between Highgate and Finchley Common , putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Knife, a Fork, and a Pair of Scissrs, value 2s. and 6d. one Carolus, a half Guinea, and 56 s. and.6d. in Silver, on the 19th of December, 1724. This Person was a young Man, about the Age of 24, born in the Parish of St. James's Clerkenwell , his Father by Trade a Taylor, who died when he was about 4 or 5 Years of Age, put a Stop to the Course of Learning his Father design'd he should have; and so the care of him lying on the Shoulders of his Mother, then a Widow: However she qualified him with a Sufficiency of Literature for an Employ she design'd him for, and when done puts him an Apprentice to a Vintner near Billingsgate , where he servd’ his Time. Whence he removed to Windsor , Married, and Rented the Tap in the Mermaid Inn , but through some Mismanagement, in a small Time, contracted a Debt of 30 Pounds; and finding himself in no promising Capacity of Satisfying of it, but that Things were going backward with him, he consults with his Wife what Measures he might take to retrieve himself, who told him in plain Words, that she knew no other way for him than to go on the Highway, or some such Business. This dispute happen’d on the Sunday between them, on the Monday Mr. Picken, puts his Wife's Advice into Practice, leaves her with her Mother who had hired a Lodging for themselves, when he was oblig'd to lie on the Floor by them, and that (as he said) for three Years last past . So away he comes from them, and finds out Mr. Packer who entering into a first Covenant one with the other, fally'd out on, the Highway, three Days in that Week they committed the Fact for Which they died. This Joseph Picke said, he never engaged in any Affair of that Nature for Which he suffer’d, till that Week wherein he was taken . He Own’d they met with Success in all their Enterprizes,’till their return to London. On Saturday Night, he lay in a very weak Condition in the Condermn'd Hold, and charg'd his Wife with all the Misfortunes that befell him since Marriage, but especially with her manifest ingratitude in deferting, of him when he laid under such black, Circumstances . He appear’d seemingly a Penitent, and forgave his Wife the injuries she had done him, and To prepar'd himself for the reception of the Holy Sacrament.

THOMAS PACKER , Son of George Packer , Shoemaker , in Buthrball Lane, aged 21, was indicted for assaulting,on the Highway Charles Cooper , in Company with Joseph Picken , was convicted and sentenced accordingly. His Behaviour since, even to Execution, was becoming a Person under his melancholy Circumstances; he said his Father took care to send him to School in order to, qualifie him for a Trade, which he attain’d to thence he put him an Apprentice to a Vintner at the Ship Tavern in Greenwich , with whom he did not think fit to serve his Term of Years, because as he urg'd a faithful Servitude with him could;not entitle him to the Freedom of the City of London; upon which he apply’d himself to his Father for a remove, who went to his Master and consulted him what Meaies proper to take for to make his Son easy: The Master consented that this Thomas Packer should be turn’d over to another; accordingly his Father made enquiry for another Master, and happen’d on the Master of the of r Tavern near Red-Lion-Square , with whom he compleated his Time, and then going from Place to Place, fixing no where, he happen’d

into the Conversation of a Woman with whom he married, and who (as he said) is now Pregnant, which seem'd a great Addition to his unhappy Suffering. On the Sunday Night being admonished privately in the Closet, he, with great Marks of Composedness and Gratitude, return’d Thanks for all the good Offers done him, and said he would endeavour to follow our Directions. He deny'd that he ever was concern’d in any Fact before Picken and himself engag'd that Week they were taken.

EDWARD PAWLITT alias JOHNSON , was Indicted for privately stealing a Pocket value 2d. one Guinea, 4s. a pair of Scislars, two Keys, and a pair of silk Gloves, on the 27th of December last, and was found guilty to the value of 10d. He was a second time Indicted for returning from Transportation before the expiration of 7 Years, to which he pleaded Guilty, and for which he suffered Death. He said he was the Son of a Gentleman, and born in Water-lane , Fleet-street ; that his Father dying when he was about 5 or 6 Years old, put a stop to that liberal Education design’d him; but having learn'd to Read and Write, he engag'd himself in the Sea Service , in the Affairs of the then Sir George Bing (now Lard Torrington) up the Mediterranean , and Sir John Norris up the Baltick , on board two several Men of War. Tired with that way of Life he married, about 4 Year ago and to support himself and Wife betook him to indirect Practices, for one of which he was sentenced to Transportation about 2 Yeats agone. He charg'd his Father-in-law, Mr. Lewin, with being the chief Instrument of his being sent away, pursuant to his Sentence, for (as he said) he had had the remission of it had not he violently inerpos'd at that Juncture. His Behaviour under Sentence became a dying Man, and he own'd himself a Member (tho’ an unworthy one) of the Church of England, that he dy’d in Charity with all the World, and begg’d that God would forgive the Sins and great Mistakes of his past Life: His Mother made daily Visits to him, and show’d the tender Expressions of a Parent to him under Sentence.

THOMAS BRADLEY of Stepney , was Indicted for assaulting Margaret Cook on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Riding-Hood, the Goods of Jane Huckle , value 25s. He was a Lad about 19 Years of Age, born and brought up at Leverpool , where his Father was a kind of an Officer in his Majesty’s Custom-House; after he had learn’d to Read and Writer he was put to a Seafaring Business in which he continued till discharg’d; and being destitute of Money and out of Employ, betook himself to this Way of Life which brought him to his Death. He confess’d he had robb’d once before, but could not be preva’d upon to particularize either in Person Time, or Place; he own’d himself a Member of our Communion, and being mov’d to be ingenious in his Confession, reply’d he would say no more, to expose himself and his surviving Relations. He was a single Man, and said his greatest Grief was the Concern his Parents would conceive at his shameful Exit; but being admonish’d to decline such Thoughts, as foreign to the great Work he was engag’d in, he reply’d I’ll think no more (if possible ) of them, but will endeavour to pursue your Instructions, which in all appearance he did.

WILLIAM LIPSAT , of St. Giles’s in the Fields , was Indicted for stealing, in the House of Robert Kelway , 57 Guineas and half, 25 Caro

ls’s, 5 Jacobus's, 3 Moidores, 6 Pieces of Silver value 12 s. a silver Buckle set with Stones, and 2 Purses value 12d. He was a Lad of the Age of 19, and said he was born in Dublin , where his Father now lives, and that his Parents took care to give him a moderate Education, and sent him over to England to his Uncle at Stockton in Worcestershire , with whom he as tenderly ’d as under the Wing of his Parents; but taking some Disgust, or curious to try his Adventures in our Metropolis, up he comes and engages in Mr. Kelway‘s Service , and there having repeated Letters from his Father to come to Dublin, he resolv’d upon the answering his Request; but finding himself capacitated thro' defect of Coin, and knowing where such a Quantity was to be had that would make his Journey easy, and his Arrival welcome, he could not withstand a Temptation to do that for which he died. He gave us all the Characteristicks of a sincere Penitent both in Publick and Private, and hoped (as he was an unworthy Member of the Church of England, and bad forfeited the Favour of his God by repeated Violations of his sacred Laws) that 'twas, not too late for his Restoration, and resolv'd nothing should be wanting in him to obtain it, and so in good earnest prepared to meet with Death, and enjoy an everlasting Life.

On the Morning of Execution they behav'd like Men under expectation of their near approaching and great Change; Mr. Hewlett the Watchman (he indeed) appear’d somewhat incompos’d in look, but we must refer the Reader to the reason of it; after all the Service ended in the Chapel, they had Directions for their Behaviour in the Way to and at the Tree.

When come there, they all shock’d with the Sight of the tragical Scene they were about to act, appeared like Men dispirited, every part of their Bodies being in a sort of trembling Motion; but Edward Pawlitt , when the Executioner came to the Office of tying his Hands, resisted with violence, but was obliged to yield to him, after which, when joyn’d along with the rest in a Posture for taking a step into another World, he began to be a little more calm, and compos’d himself to Prayer and Ejaculation by himself, for which he requested some interval of Time in our Service. Hewlett the Watchman, as at his Tryal, and in the Prison, so at the Tree, deny’d the Murder of the Man for which he died, and with the solemn Manner of taking our Book and kissing of it, after his asseveration, adding that he never had reason, or did conceive Malice or Prejudice against the Person deceas’d, or gave him any Blow to his Knowledge in his Life time: The other five own’d their Sentence and Execution to be just, and indeed Hewlett did ingeniously confess that he had committed other Crimes (tho’ innocent of that) which deserv’d Death; then they all commended their Souls into the Hands of god, begging to receive that Mercy in Heaven they could not meet with on Earth, and after singing some part of the Lamentation of a Sinner they were dismiss’d, and left this World with moving Requests for a better.

This is the Account given by JAMES WAGSTAFF , who officiated for T. PURNEY, Ordinary and Chaplain.

LONDON : Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , a little below Bridewell Bridge , Black-Fryers .

