THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On WEDNESDAY the 19th of this Instant December, 1733.

BEING THE FIRST EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. Sir WILLIAM BILLERS , Knt.

Number I. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street , M.DCC.XXXIII.

[Price Six-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate , held (before the Right Honourable John Barber , Esq; Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Honourable Mr. Justice Denton; the Honourable Mr. Baron Comyns; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London; and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London; and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex,) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 10th, 11th and 12th of October, 1733, in the Seventh Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Six Man, viz. Francis Crotchet , John Weedon , Joseph Cox , John Butler , John Brown , otherwise Johnson , otherwise Terence Conway , Thomas Whithy ; and two Women, viz. Dorothy Carter and Margaret Berry , were by the Jury found Guilty of Capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death. And,

At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir William Billers , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Honourable Mr. Baron Carter; the Honourable Mr. Justice Probyn; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the City of London; and others of His Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London; and Justices of Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Mid

dlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th of December, 1733, in the Seventh Year of His Majesty's Reign.

Eleven Men, viz. Henry Baxter , John Rook , otherwise Jack the Hatter, John Anderson , Francis Ogalbe , James Baker , otherwise Stick in the Mud, John Collington , William Brown , Joseph Whitlock , John Freelove , John Beach , William Johnson ; and three Women, viz Elizabeth Rann , Elizabeth Wright , the Mother, and Mary Wright , the Daughter, were by the Jury found Guilty of Capital Ofences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

When under Sentence, in order to an effectual preparation for Death, they were exhorted to double their diligence, as being confin'd to a very short Time, since a faint endeavour will never go through with any Work, which requires either length of Time, or strength of Labour. If one put little strength to it, that will not conquer the difficulty of the Task, and if he is soon wearied, he will give over before it come to an End. So that a Man must apply himself to the same, both earnestly and long, if he would succeed when he has begun, and go on to finish and compleat it.

Now our obeying God, and amending of our Lives is a Work of this kind; for our Sins being many in Number, they will require some Time before they are all amended, and our hindrances in leaving them being great, and the temptations Strong, that Daily assault and draw us to them, and our own Lusts, and a treacherous Enemy in our own Bosoms, being always ready to take their Parts and strike in with them, it requires a great Watchfulness, and a constant care, and an earnest vigorous endeavour to overcome them. And this the Scripture tells us plainly we must use, if ever we expect to prevail against them. St. Peter tells us, we must give all diligece, 2 Pet. 1. 5, 10. St. Paul, that we must be circumspect, Eph. 5. 15. Our blessed Saviour that we must watch always, and be ever standing upon our Guard. Mark 13. 37. And strive to enter in at the streight Gate, Luke 13. 24. which striving is called a Warfare. 2. Cor. 10. 4. and a Fight, 1. Tim. 6. 12. all which show the greatness of that

Care, and both the Earnestness and Constancy of that Endeavour, which we must lay out upon it.

The Fault of those who pursue Obedience by proper Methods, and yet miss of it at last, is this, They endeavour but by halves, and seek it, either by too short, or too flight Pains. They want Resolution to set manfully about it, or the Patience to go through with it; wherefore I exhorted them to use their utmost Care, in working out their Salvation with Fear and Trembling; and wherein they came short, to implore the Assistance of God's Grace, that he, by the powerful Influences of the Holy Ghost, who is promised to all Christians, who sincerely seek him; with perfect Strength in their Weakness, and Wisdom in their Folly, and make them willing and obedient in the Day of his Power.

One of them having been convicted of Murther, I expos'd the great Evil of that atrocious Crime, both as to the Nature of the Sin itself, and its dreadful Consequences, as entailing inevitable Misery upon a Man, both in a present and future Life, if not prevented by a true and hearty Repentance, &c.

I explain'd to them the great Design of the Christian Sacraments, by which we are engag'd and confirm'd in the Service of God; and particularly I insisted on the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, left in Legacy by Christ to his Church, as a Token of that everlasting Love he bears us, from these Words, And they continued stedfastly in the Apostles Doctrine and Fellowship, and in Breaking of Bread, and in Prayers, Acts ii. 42. &c.

When these and many like Instructions were given, such as could read made regular Responses, and all of them were apparently devout, and very attentive both to Prayers and Exhortations. John Anderson , Henry Baxter , John Freelove and William Johnson , were pretty much afflicted with Sickness, and sometimes confin'd to their Cells, during the short Time they were under Sentence; but when I visited, or spoke to them, they still declar'd their Penitence: Elizabeth Wright was inconsolable, and her Daughter Mary Wright , being young, wept very much, but both of them behav'd decently.

Upon Friday the 14th of this Instant December, Report was made to His Majesty in Council, of the twenty-two Prisoners under Sentence of Death in Newgate ; when Francis Cotchet , for assaulting Sarah Banks , Widow , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her in agate Box, with gold Rims, value 8 l. a silk Purse, half a Guinea and 2 d. October the 1st; as also for assaulting Sarah , the Wife of Francis Clifton , Doctor of Physick , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a gold Watch enchas'd, and a gold Chain, value 40 l. an agate Seal set in Gold, value 3 l. a silk Purse and 5 s. October the 1st; Dorothy Carter , for privately stealing 22 Yards of

Lace, value 4 l. from the Person of John Connor , September the 4th; John Weedon , Joseph Cox and John Buttler , of Hendon , for assaulting John Pantridge , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a rug Coat, a Hat, a crape Hatband, a Handkerchief, half a Guinea, 45 s. and 3 d. October the 8th; Margaret Berry , for High Treason, in Coining twenty Pieces of false and counterfeit Money, in the Likeness of Sixpences, M the 10th; John Freelove , for assaulting Francis Lee , on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a silver Watch, with a glass Seal set in Brass, value 5 l. and 4 s. in Money, November the 22d; Elizabeth Rann , a little Girl, for stealing a silver Spoon, two Aprons, four Mobs, 20 Guineas, and twenty-one Shillings, the Goods and Money of Stephen Freeman , in his House, November the 24th; and Mary Wright , the Daughter of Elizabeth Wright , for Coining: Receiv'd His Majesty's most gracious Reprieve. The remaining Thirteen, viz. John Brown , otherwise Johnson , otherwise Terence Conway , Thomas Whitby ; otherwise Woodby , Henry Baxter , John Rook , otherwise Jack the Hatter, John Anderson , Francis Ogleby , James Baker , John Collington , William Brown , Joseph Whitlock , John Beach , William Johnston and Elizabeth Wright , were ordered for Execution.

N. B. Margaret Berry , pleaded her Belly, and a Jury of Matrons being impannelled, found her quick with Child; wherefore, some Days after Sentence, she was carried out of the Cells to the Common Side of Newgate .

John Brown otherwise Conway , otherwise Johnson , was indicted for stealing a silver Cup, value 25 s. the Property of Margaret La Mothe , October the 7th; and again,

John Brown , otherwise Johnson , otherwise Terence Conway was a second Time indicted, with Margaret Berry , whom he own'd to be his Wife for High Treason, in Coining 20 Pieces of false and counterfeit Money, in the Likeness of Sixpences, May the 10th. Both found Guilty. Death.

1. John Brown , about 36 Years of Age, born at Sligo in Ireland , of mean Parents, who gave him no Education at School, and knew very little of Religion. He was of no Trade, but pretended to be a Dealer in Hair , and that he liv'd honestly at Home, which Account may be much doubted of, where he married a Wife, and having little to do, he came to London with Margaret Berry , convicted of the same Crime with him, whom he called his Wife, about twelve Months ago; but how they liv'd here, no-body knew, till they were apprehended for passing, and afterwards taking up, and fond Guilty of Coining counterfeit Money. He reflected a little on Macnelly the Evidence, and inclin'd to dissemble, or shift a frank Acknowledgement, but could not positively deny his Guilt. He was not so very wicked in his Life, as some of that Set of Men are, but delighted too much in Drinking; and he own'd,

That he was not addicted to stealing and thieving. He was of the Romish Communion , but came always to Chapel, and behaved very gravely and seriously, and cried very much, especially for his Wife; and when he saw her in Chapel, he own'd also that he suffered justly for his Crimes; profest a deep Repentance, declared that he believ'd in Christ his Saviour, and died in Peace with all the World

Thomas Whitby , otherwise Woodby , was indicted for assaulting John Gordon in Lincolns Inn-Fields , putting him in fear, and taking from him a Hat, Wig; half a Guinea and 5 d. July 8.

2. Thomas Whitby , otherwise Woodby , about 18 Years of Age, born in St. Giles's Parish in the Fields , and educated at School to Reading, Writing, and Cyphering to fit him for Business. He was put to a Chocolate maker in Aldersgate-street , but not agreeing with his Master or some others of the Family, at the End of two Years he left him. Then he went to a Butcher at the other End of the Town, and next to another Butcher in the Country, with each of them he stay'd a Year or two. He was last with his Master the Butcher in Town, kept his Books, received his Money, and never wrong'd him of a Farthing. He went to School with Watson the Evidence, and R-n and Watson being some Years older, and a Boy of a very wicked, perverse Disposition, corrupted and enticed both of them to take bad Courses. He own'd that he was a most vicious Boy in all kinds of Theft, drinking, keeping Company with bad Women, and that he suffered deservedly for the Errors of his Life. He confessed the Robbing of Mr. Gordon in Lincoln's-Inn-Fields ; but that he knew of no more Money but Three pence Half-penny, together with his Hat and Wig taken from him; the other three he alledged, beat Mr. Gordon unmercifully and wounded him. He always behaved well in Chapel, and was very attentive. He wept and lamented much over the Misfortunes he had brought upon himself; declared himself Penitent for the grievous Offences of his Life; that he hoped for Salvation through Christ, and died in Peace with all Mankind.

Henry Baxter and John Rooks , otherwise Jack the Hatter, was indicted for assaulting Samuel Maxwell , in an open Field near the Highway, in the Parish of Stepney , puting him in fear, and taking from him 19 s. 6 d. November 22. Guilty Death.

Henry Baxter , was a second time indicted with another Man, for breaking the House of Thomas Golden , and stealing a Pair of Iron-grates value 12 s. an Iron Jack value 15 s. and two Iron-spitts, value 1 s. 6 d. the Goods of Faith Burton , and a Spade value 2 s. 6d, the Goods of Thomas Golden , November 19, between the Hours of One and Two in the Morning.

Henry Baxter , was a 3d time indicted with another, for stealing a Cloath-coat value 5s. and a Leg of Pork va

lue 3s. the Goods of Christopher Stacey , in Stepney Parish , Octob. 15, of this last he was acquitted.

3. Henry Baxter , about 26 Years of Age, born in the Country of honest Parents, who put him to School, and instructed him in Reading, Writing, and Accompts for Business. He work'd with his Father, who made Leather Breeches and some Years ago he came to London , but did not follow the Employment he was bred to, but served the Butchers , and sometimes he went to Sea ; and when he was at home he soon spent all his Money, and then took himself to unlawful Shifts, employing his Time with the basest Company, who had no good Advice to give, but hurried him to his ruin. He was very poor and naked, and afflicted with Sickness two or three Days, but when he recovered he came always to Chapel, and behaved decently, excepting the Monday before he died; he was a little turbulent, because he could not be allowed the Liberty of charting with his Friends who came to visit him in time of Divine Service; but when I desired him to consider, that he had nothing more to do with any thing of this World, but that it was his Duty to abstract his Thoughts altogether from earthly Enjoyments, and to settle his Affections on things above, from whence we expect a Saviour to converse with God, and to double his Diligence in making Peace with God, during the few remaining Moments of his Time; he then composed himself, comply'd with the Worship and was attentive. He confessed, that he was a very great Sinner in disobeying his Parents, neglecting the Worship of God, idling away his Time; and that he had committed very many Thefts and Robberies, and he did not deny the Fact for which he died. He declared his Faith in Christ, and that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Men, as he expected Forgiveness from God.

4. John Rook , otherwise, Jack the Hatter , a Nick-name given him from his Trade, twenty Years of Age, had no Education at School, but when of Age he followed his Father and learned him to make Hats, which Employment he always followed, till of late he fell in with bad Company, who diverted him from all good Purposes and Business, and this idle manner of Life got him a bad Character, and put it in the Power of wicked Rogues utterly to ruin when they pleas'd. He never associate himself with any Gangs of Thieves, but them who were taken up with him; and if he had not been discover'd, he intended to go to his Business again. He was much addicted to Drinking, Gaming, and Swearing, which exposed him to many Inconveniencies, brought him into a habit of Idleness, and occasioned his falling into wicked Actions. He was very ignorant, but mighty desirous of Instruction, and most attentive to Prayers and Exhortations.

He was obstinate and refractory in making ample Confessions, but acknowledg'd that he was a very wicked Youth, inclin'd to all kind of Vice, and averse to Virtue. He declar'd himself heartily griev'd for his many Scandalous Sins; that he hop'd for Salvation through the Mercy of God in Christ, and died in Peace with all the World.

John Anderson , and James Baker , otherwise Stick in the Mud, were indicted for breaking and entering the House of Robert Rayner , and stealing three pair of Shoes, value 15 s. three Shoes, value 7 s. and one Boot, value 7 s. October the 16th, about the Hour of eight in the Evening.

John Anderson , and James Baker , otherwise Stick in the Mud, were a second Time indicted, with Francis Ogalby , for breaking and entring the House of Thomas Rayner , and stealing a silver Mug, value 3 l. two silver Salvers, value 3 l. a silver pepper box value 20 s and a Hat value 10 s. the Goods of Thomas Rayner , October the 4th, between the Hours of two and and three in the Night.

John Anderson , with another, was a third Time indicted, for stealing a Firkin of Butter, value. 12 s. and a Cheese, value 4 s. and found Guilty of Felony only.

5. John Anderson , whose true Name was Andrews , about 20 years of Age, of honest Parents, who educated him at School, Reading, Writing and Arithmetick, and instructed him in Christian Principles; what he minded least. He was bred a Joyner , and follow'd his Business till of late, that falling in with bad Company; he gave himself up to all manner of Wickedness, would Work none at his Trade, and shun'd meeting with his nearest Relations add Friends, who wish'd him well, and were willing to do him Service. He was not willing to speak with me, till the Monday before he died, and then he made an Apology for his Discretion, and said, some others had given him wrong Advice, not to speak or confess any thing to a Clergyman; I told him, it was only for the good of his Soul, and to direct him in his Preparations for Death, I desired to see him. As his time was but very short, he was much humbled under a deep Sense of his Sin and Guilt, own'd that he had been a very naughty and perverse young Man, that he had committed a great Number of Thefts and Robberies, to which he was led by the vile Company he delighted in; and that for his villainous Actions, God had justly afflicted him. He freely confess'd the Crimes for which he was indicted and convicted. He hop'd for Salvation, by the Mercy of God in Christ; Declar'd, that he was a sincere Penitent, and freely forgave all injuries done him, as he expected forgiveness from God.

6. James Baker , otherwise Stick in the Mud, about 20 years of Age, of mean Parents, who could not give him Education, and who himself was of such bad inclinations, that he would not

go to publick Schools. He was of no Trade, but serv'd Grooms about Gentlemens Stables , and in this Way having too much liberty; he was one of them who frequented Gin-Shops, where he got into acquaintance of the vilest Company in the World, who for two or three Years past, drove him headlong to destruction, and into all kind of Villanies. He confess'd that he was guilty of innumerable Thefts and Robberies. He was often in Newgate , Bridewell and other Prisons; some Months ago he was Evidence against three or four others, who were acquitted. He was taken up upon Suspicion of being concern'd in robbing Colonel Des Romain, but no Evidence appearing against him, and he knowing nothing of that affair, Abraham Wild put him into his Information, and convicted him of the two Robberies for which he died. He was a very wild extravagant Youth, hardhearted and ignorant. I instructed him, as the shortness of Time allow'd, but he was of a dull capacity to mind good Things. He declar'd himself Penitent for the Offences of his Life; that he believ'd in Jesus Christ, the Saviour of Sinners, and was in Peace with all the World.

7. Francis Ogalby , 26 years of Age, of mean Parents about the Town, who educated him at School to read, write and cast Accounts, to fit him for business. He serv'd his Time to a Barber , but afterwards not loving confinement to close Business; he went to Sea some Voyages in King's Ships, to Gibraltar and the Mediterranean but when he came home, he could not keep Money, and letting it all go in a few Days with the vilest Company; he was immediately put to his Shifts with his black-guard Companions, who liv'd by robbing, stealing and breaking Houses. He was often in Bridewell and Newgate , of late he got acquaintance with Baker and Wild the Evidence, who engag'd him to commit the Robbery for which he died. He own'd that he was a good for nothing young Fellow, ready to follow any kind of Vice, having been wholy immers'd in wickedness for which he most deservedly Suffer'd according to the Sentence past upon him. He believ'd in Christ, profest Penitence and forgave all Offences done him.

John Collington , otherwise Mendal , was indicted for assaulting William Murray on the Highway, in the Parish Stepney , puting him in fear, and taking from him two Pistols value 5 l. the Goods of John Chapman , Esq; Sept. 17.

He was a second time indicted for assaulting Sir William Chapman , Knight and Baronet , on the Highway, in the Parish of Stepney , putting him in fear, and taking from him four half Guineas, Sept. 17.

8. John Collington , about Twenty-two Years of Age, of honest Parents in the Country, who put him to School and taught him to Read, Write, and Accompts, and had him instructed in Christian Principles. He was not of any Trade, but served a Gentleman, in Station of a Footman ,

and behav'd very honestly, and his Master lik'd him. Wearying of this Business, he fell into bad Company, who advis'd him to bad Courses; and this Advice to his Sorrow, he too readily comply'd with. For then he joined himself to a Gang of Highwaymen, four or five in Number, and with them committed a great Number of Robberies, he having had no other way to live for a long time past. As he alledg'd, he could get no other Business, having lost his Character, and being suspected that he was a Highwayman; and this, a certain Person in the Country who knew the Truth thereof, told to every Body, so that no Man would trust him as a Servant. He confess'd the Robbing of Sir William Chapman , but that he treated the Gentleman civilly, which those of his Profession rarely do. His Companions were waiting at a Distance, and they used to divide the Plunder equally; one or two of them who are pretty well known in Town, have since gone out of the Way and fled. He was a vicious, desperate, bold young Man, who threw off all fear of God and Regard to Man, after he engaged in these wicked Courses. He behaved well under his Misfortunes, acknowledged the Justice of his Sentence, hop'd for Salvation through the Merits of Jesus Christ, repented of all his Sins, and forgave all Men.

John Beach , was indicted for assaulting Francis Curfoy on the Highway, in the Parish of St. George in the East , putting him in fear, and taking from him a Handkerchief, a pair of Silk-garters, a Key, and a Bill of Exchange, dated October 8th, 1733, drawn by Christopher Hooper on Anthony Hooper for 5 l. 9 s. payable at five Days Sight, and four Shillings in Money, the Property of Francis Curfoy , October 31.

The Confession of John Cullington .

JOHN CULLINGTON , born of very honest and reputable Parents (as he said) came up to London about 7 or 8 Years ago, and was hir'd to Esquire Mayow , as a Groom , and liv'd with him about 3 Years, and then left his Service, and afterwards liv'd with Mr. Cotten, Brewer in Highgate , for some Time. After I was discharged his Service, I went to St. Edmundsbury . After I had been some Time there, I was hir'd as a Groom to Mr. Sidey. I liv'd with that Gentleman 3 Years, and upwards, where I had the Character of a good Servant, and was well respected among the Gentlemen of the Town.

A little Time after I came to London , and return'd to Bury again, where I lived with Sir George Mac Cullum , but was soon turned away from him, and having nothing to do, and no Friend, I betook myself to stealing all the Fowls in the Country, I could lay my Hands on, and then came up to London again. From thence I went to hunt a Pack of Hounds of Captain Pyes, near Colchester, where I lived al

most the hunting Season; but at last was turned away. From thence I went to Bury, and staid there till I spent all I had, and no body caring to do any Thing for me, I hired a Horse there, and went to Colchester , near which Place I took a Mare out of a Pasture, and left my Horse in a Shed, on which I stopped the Colchester, Coach; but having no Arms, and they being resolute, did not rob them. On which I turned the Mare up again, and took my Horse, and went to Bury again. From thence I came to London, and got acquainted with one Thomas T-r, who got me into Place at Mr. James Parrott's , a Horse Dealer at Islington , with whom I lived about twelve Weeks, and then left him. Some Time afterwards, I went down to a Place called Scoling in Norfolk , and then came to London again. About Michaelmas last, T-r, the Captain and Myself, went on the Essex Road , with an Intent to rob the Stage Coaches that travelled that Road; and after staying some Time in the Watchouse, between Mile End and Bow , and the Coaches not coming Time enough, we returned Home without doing any Thing After which, one R-n, the Barber, who lived at the Angel at Islington, with Myself, went to the Conduit House at Islington , where we broke the Window, and stole 7 Chickens, which one William Grubb , a Drover , who lives at Islington , was accused of, tho not Guilty. After which, R-n lent me Money to buy Arms, and came to me to the Coach and Horses by Old Street Church, and told me he had set a Drover for me to rob, who had a good Sum of Money, and bid me make the best of my Way to Holloway, where he would meet me, and shew me him, but he did not come; but by the Description he had gave me, I went by Myself, and followed him to Finchley Common, and at the Sign of the Windmill , fell in Company with him, and rode with him to the Bottom of Barnet Hills , where I attempted to rob him, but some Passengers passing, was disappointed. I still rode after him, till we came between Hadley and Kecks-End , where I stopped and demanded his Money, but he refusing, and lifting up his Stick to strike me, I presented a Pistol to him, and told him, if he did dropt it, I would shoot him, through the Body; at the same Time demanding his Gold, out of the white Bag he had in his other Pocket. On which he drew it out, on Pretence to give it me, instead of which he offered to catch hold of my Hand, to dismount me. I order'd him to put the Money in my Hat, which he refusing, I told him I would shoot his Mare, which I accordingly did, on which he rode away among several People, crying out Murder and Rogues. However, I rode after him, still demanding his Money, with a Pistol cock'd in my Hand, telling him I would shoot him, which I accordingly did, in the right Shoulder, after which I drew another Pistol, being resolved to have his

Money, he still riding, and I after him, when I told him, if he did not deliver it, I had two Brace more of Pistols, and would shoot him Dead; but finding him resolute not to part with his Money, I told him I was sure I had wounded him; and not being willing to commit Murder, rode off without robbing him, towards Enfield Chase , and from thence went to Southgate , where I called for a Pint of Drink, and drank it, and rode away without paying for it, fearing a Pursuit, which after happened. I lost my Pursuers about Coneyhatch . On my Return by the great Oak on Finchley Common , I robb'd a Baker of about 9 s. and some silver Groats and Pence, and came to London that Night. The next Day I went to the Captain, and T-r, when we went to one Sidey's, the Hostler at the White-Lion Inn in Islington , who furnished the Captain and T-r with Horses and great Coats, and a Piece of black Crape, and I fetched the other Horse, which Sidey with Dirt black'd his Star and Ship. From thence we went towards Newington, and so to Stamford-Hill , where we stopped a Chaise, wherein were a Gentleman and Gentlewoman, whom we robb'd of about 8 s. From thence we went towards Totenham, where we met a Gentleman on a Grey Gelding, whom we stopp'd, and T-r said, he would shoot him through the Head, if he did not deliver immediately, which he did;and from him we took about 18 s. From thence we rode to Edmonton-Wash , where we stopped two Chaises, wherein were two Gentlemen and two Gentlewomen,whom them we robb'd of about 14 s. and a brass Bottle Screw;andriding farther on, we stopp'd a Man and Woman on Horseback he Man riding from us, T-r shot at him, but missed him, and I rode after him, and robb'd him of about 9 s. and took from the Woman about 6 s. and a green Purse. Riding further on, we stopt a Man on a bay Gelding, and robb'd him of 1 s. and cross the Country Home to Islington , and left all the Horses and great Coats in Sidey's Stables, he having left the back Door of the Stables open for that Purpose: From thence we went over the Water to Vine-Court in St. Olave's-Street .

On the Sunday following, we went to Mile End , to see what Drovers were up, when Mr. Smith had Monday and Fridays Market. T-r went to Islington to Sidey, and borrowed a great Coat for himself, and brought me another, and then went to A-s, and borrow'd his rifled Barrel Pistol, and borrow'd Mr. H-y's Horse for himself, all which was intended to robb Mr. Smith;but T-r hav being so much in Liquor, was not fit to go out, whereupon I went after Mr. Smith, but did not meet with him, and on my return near Laytonstone, Sir William Chapman's Coach overtook me, with whom I came in Company to Bow Church , where their Horses stopping to Stale. I walked my Horse easily before them, when the Coach and two Servants on

Horseback, coming up, I clap'd a Pistol to one of their Breasts. He told me he had nothing; on which I told him, I wanted nothing, but them before him, meaning his Pistols, which I took from him, and firing my own Pistol in the Air, bid the other Servant stir at his Peril, from thence I went up to the Coach and told Sir William that I got his own Arms, and he knew whether they were loaden or not, and demanded their Gold, one Gentleman in the Coach gave me one Guinea, another about 12 s. another about 18 or 20 s. on which I told them it was but a small Quantity to take from a Coach, I hope your Honours would be so good, if it should be my unhappy Fate to come on Trial, your Honours will be pleas'd to be favourable to me there, as I am now to you, for it is neither Snuff-boxes, Watches or Rings that I want, but necessity drives me to it, and it is only Money, on which Sir William bid me come to him, and gave me two Guineas and a half. From thence I rode as hard as I could to Islington thro' the White Lyon Yard , where Sidey met me and put the Horse in the Stable and baited him well; from thence I got into a Coach at the Turnpike, and Sidey went with me to the Sign of the Fleece in Wood's-Close , when I told Sidey what I had done, and then I gave him half a Guinea of the Money; from thence I went to Southwark , and he told me he would get the Stirrup mended against I come back, and left the Door of the Stable open for me to take the Horse, which done, I rid after the Drovers towards Ingerstone , but could not overtake them, and then turned to the Bury Road, and going into Melford street, between Sudbury and Bury , Galloping my Horse, he threw his hind Foot into his fore Foot and threw me, which dislocated my Neck, on which I was taken on Suspicion, and carryed to Bury Prison .

On my last going out after the Drovers, I stop'd the Bedford Stage Coach in Islington back Road , and the Coachman told me there was no body in it, only a Gentleman's Servant, from whom I demanded his Money, but the Coachman telling me he was going into the Country to see his Friends and it was all he had in the World, which he offer'd to give me, but I would not take it from him.

9. John Beach , about 24 years of Age, of mean Parents about the Town, who gave him no education at School. He serv'd his Time to a Waterman , and then he had a Wherry of his own , and liv'd honestly by his Business; but being a Silly, Simple young Man, he was led aside by vile Company, and that prov'd his Ruin; for he was mightily given to drinking and idling away his Time, which expos'd him to many temptations. He reflected a little on his Prosecutor, and was not inclinable to make plain Confessions. He was grosly ignorant, and appear'd to be foolish, and like one almost out of his Senses, both in his Jestures and way of Speaking. He declar'd, that he believ'd in Christ our Saviour;

Repented of all, more especially the henious Sins of his Life, having own'd that he was a great Thief in picking and stealing small Things, or what he could lay his Hands on; and he heartily forgave all injuries done him, as he hop'd for forgiveness from God.

William Johnston , of Edmonton , was Indicted for unlawfully Hunting, Stealing and carrying away (with Robert Hill , not yet taken) a Fallow-Deer, val. 3 l. and a Fallow-Fawn, val. 1 l. in a Park enclos'd with a Fence, where Deer are usually kept, the Property of Sir Jeremiah Sambrook , Baronet, after the 1st of June, 1733, that is to say, on the 12th of June last.

He was a 2d, time Indicted for the Murder of James Taaman , by maliciously discharging a Pistol loaded with Powder and Bullets, and thereby giving him one mortal Wound in the left side of his Neck, of the length of half an Inch, and depth of four Inches, on the 26th of October last, of which he languish'd till the next Day, and then Dy'd.

10. William Johnston , thirty Years of Age, of reputable Parents in the Country, who gave him good Education at School, and put him to a Cooper in Town, to which he serv'd out his Time,and He liv'd by his Business for sometime; but being of an unsettl'd Disposition, he could not be confin'd, but frequented himself to bad Company, particularly of Deer-Stealers, which prov'd the occasion of all his Misfortunes. He for several Years past made it his chief Business to go in the Country, and robb'd Gentlemens Parks of Deer. He was also acquainted with Highwaymen and Gangs of Thieves, and was capable of any kind of Wickedness; so that it was commonly said, he was concern'd with Brown and Whitlock, and their Associates, in some of their Robberies which they Committed, particularly in robbing about Edgeworth and other Places; the Truth of this he absolutely deny'd, or that he ever rob'd on the Highway or otherwise; but own'd, that he was very much guilty of Deer-stealing, and that he sold the Deer in Town, and sometimes kept it for his own Use; but excepting in triffling Things he never was a Thief.

As to the Murther of Taaman, he confest that he kill'd him, but without any Design; for he alleg'd, that as he persu'd him, he Burnt him in the Neck with a red hot Iron, and he held out the Pistol to push him back, or give him a blow

with it, and then it went off and shot him by Accident: I told him that it was to no purpose to extenuate his Crime of which he was Convicted, but to Confess and give Glory to God. He own'd, that his Sentence was Just, and that deservedly suffer'd for his irregular Life. As to the great Coat which (as was said) he took from a Farmer, whom he Rob'd on the Highway, he alledg'd he Bought it of Whitlock, with whom he contracted an Acquaintance with him when they were both Prisoners in the New Goal, the other side of the Water, for he had been often in Prison on Suspicion of Deer-stealing, and Robbing on the Highway. He was indispos'd with Sickness, and behav'd decently and civilly, both in publick and private. He appear'd to be an obstinate obdur'd Sinner; he confess'd himself Penitent, declar'd his Faith in Christ, and that he dy'd in Peace with all Mankind.

William Brown and Joseph Whitlock , of Paddington , were indicted for breaking and entring (in Company with William Blackwell , otherwise Long Will, not yet taken) the House of James Des Romaine , Esq ; and stealing one gold Watch, value 20 l. one silver snuff box, value 40 s. three gold Rings set with Stones, value 40 s. one mourning gold Ring, value 10 s. thirteen silver Spoons, value 6 l. twelve silver forks, value 6 l. seven Knives with silver Handles, value 3 l. one silver soop Ladle, value 30 s. four silver salts, value 50 s. eight silver Tea Spoons, value 10 s. two Pistols mounted with Silver and Steel, value 4 l. one silver hilted Sword, value 40 s. one silk damask Gown, value 3 l. twenty holland Shirts, value 10 l. six holland Sheets, value 6 l. and 52 Guineas, and 17 s. the Goods and Money of James Des Romaine, Esq; and four silk damask Gowns, value 20 l. three silk Petticoats, value 3 l. ten holland Smocks, value 5 l. four Suits of lac'd Headcloaths, value 10 l. one cloth Coat, value 10 s. and one silver Buckle, set with Bristol Stones, value 7 s. the Goods of Ann Des Romaine , Spinster (in all, to the Value of 161 l. 6 s.) on the 25th of October, about the Hour of Eight in the Night.

William Brown , about 29 Years of Age, born in the West Country , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Arithmetick, to sit him for Business, and instructed

him in the Christian Religion. He was not of any Trade, but did Country-Work , and his Father settled him in a Farm; but his Inclination not being good, he spent too much, and was oblig'd to quit his Lease; and having met with some Disappointment about a Marriage, he came to London , where by Advice of his Friends he became a Poulterer , and married a Wife, with whom he liv'd some Time in Holbourn , and then he remov'd to Paddington , where the best of the Place, particularly Colonel Des Romaine, encourag'd him; and in this Way he maintain'd his Family very well; till falling-in with had Company, he was not Proof against their pernicious Advice, and this brought him to speedy Destruction. He left Paddington, after he was abandon'd to a loose Life, and went to the other Side of the Water, where his chief Companions where, and before his Character was blown, and then he commenc'd Thief, Robber and Highwayman, without Restraint, scarce minding any other Business at all, unless for a Pretence, that he might not be suspected. He confess'd, that he was concern'd in a great Number of Highway Robberies, House-Breakings and Thefts, before he left Paddington, and since, always in Company with Whitlock and some Others, and (as was talk'd) with William Johnston , which (as said) Johnston denied, and Broud did not accuse him, and said he knew nothing of his being Guilty of such Actions: Though this may be much doubted of. He acknowledg'd the Robbing of Colonel Des Romaine, as was sworn against him, and that they treated the Colonel and his Maid most cruelly and barbarously, which was the Height of Ingratitude in him, since that Gentleman had always been very civil and obliging to him. He waited as a Watch in the Entry, while the Others went up and rifled the House. In the Beginning of October last, they committed several Robberies about Edgeworth , and afterwards in Surry , after which they were taken up, and brought to their deserved and condign Punishment. He was not so frank in his Confessions as Whitlock, yet at last he own'd a Robbery, for which Others were blam'd. He was a disobedient Youth to his Parents, a Breaker of the Lord's Day, a Neglecter of Ordinances, a Lover of vile Company, and too much addicted to

Drinking; for which, and other Vices, God in Justice afflicted him. He behav'd well under Sentence, wept bitterly and often; declar'd his Hopes of obtaining Salvation by Christ; that he truly repented of all his Sins, and was in Peace with all the World.

The Confession of Willian Brown .

THE first Fact that I ever Committed, was in Company with Joseph Whitlock , on the Rumford Road , where we stop a Higler and robb'd him of about forty or fifty shillings; then we came to Town the same Night and shar'd the Money, and so parted, and we went Home to our Lodgings. After that, wanting Money to Buy us Pistols, we went out again, and rob'd one they call Dame Holland , about a Mile beyond Dulwich, of about forty or fifty shillings; then we furnish'd our selves with Pistols. After this Robbery, Whitlock and I made an Agreement to go and see his Friends which liv'd not far from Salisbury; and in the Evening, I and Whitlock knock'd at a Man's Door, no body being there but himself, his Man-Servant and Maid-Servant, whom we ty'd by their Hands and then rifled the House to the value of about twenty Pound. The same Evening we went to another House not far from that which we Robb'd before, were we thought there was a great deal of Money; we knock'd at the Door after the same Manner as we did before; we took from that House to the value of about three Guineas, and some small matter of Silver; where we Bound all the whole Family except two small Children; from each House we took a Gun in order for our Defence for fear of being Pursu'd; but being not Pursu'd we hid them in a Tree within a few Miles of Wincester, where we did design to get Post-Horses in order to come for London, but could not, so we were oblig'd to Walk it.

When we came to London , Whitlock brought me into Company with Mitchel; not long after we had been Acquainted, we Consulted together to Rob Mr. Jerock the King's Jeweler, after the following Manner, viz. One of us was to Ring at the Door, which was accordingly done, when the Gardiner came, and ask'd him what he wanted? he reply'd, and ask'd, if Madam Debart was there, and the Gardiner made answer, she was gone; and we found we could

not get in, one of us said, it is very hard we should go Home without any Thing; with that I reply'd, here is one Colonel Des Romaines, whom I us'd to serve with Fowls and Rabbits, we will go and Knock at his Door; with that we all went to the Colonel's House, and one of us knock'd at the Door, at which the Colonel himself came to it; on his opening the Door we thrust in, and at the same one of us knock'd the Colonel down with a Cutlash, and Swore if he did not deliver his Money, that he would Murder him; with that the Colonel said he had no Money in his House; all the Time Whitlock stood over him with a Pistol to his Head: The Colonel making some Resistance, I came in, and pull'd him by one of his Legs, and flung him upon his Back-side, and then put my Hand in his Pocket, and took from him his Gold Watch and about 16 s. in Silver; after this one of us took him by the Collar, and Whitlock follow'd him with his Pistol, and led him to a Back-room where the Maid was, in order to Light a Candle, and there we Demanded his Keys. The Colonel reply'd, I will shew you every thing I have in my House, for said he, Gentlemen, I assure you I have no Money; save my Life I beg of you, and what Plate I have in the House you shall have: Upon which, one of us took the Colonel by the Collar, and led him up Stairs, at the same Time Whitlock follow'd him close with a Pistol in his Hand; and when they came up Stairs, the Colonel show'd us where the Plate lay, which we took, and made the Colonel go down Stairs, and then we put him in the Back-Room with his Maid, where she was ty'd and confin'd all the Time the Robbery was Committing; after we had ty'd the Colonel we went and rifled the House of wearing Apparel, Linnen, &c. Says Mitchel I am a Dry, I'll see if there is any Liquor in the House, with that he went into the Cellar, and brought up four or five Pints of Wine, which we drank up; says Mitchel the Colonel keeps but a poor House, for he has neither Beer nor Brandy in it, only a Glass of Wine: After this Whitlock said he was a Hungry, upon which Mitchel reply'd, I know the House very well now, so I will go and see if the Colonel has got any Victuals; with that he went down Stairs, and brought up two or three Ribbs of Mutton, and some Butter, which we all eat part of; after we had done Eating we took a

Glass or two of Wine, and then pack'd up the Cloaths, and all sett down in the Passage, for about 2 or 3 Hours; then left the House and made the best of our way for London; when we came near the Town we went towards Islington, and just by Blackmary's-Hole we parted, two one way, and two another, I ask'd Whitlock how we should Dispose of the Goods, Mitchel reply'd, I know very well how to Dispose of the Cloaths, Watch and Plate, which we did the Day after the Robbery, meeting together at the Hand and Flower , the other side of the Water, when we agreed together to sell the Plate and Watch to one Mr. Boddenham in the Old-Bailey , Mitchel saying, he knew him very well; for he had dealt with him for several Things before.

I desire all Persons (especially all young Men) to take warning by my Ignominious Death, and I hope God will give you Grace (more than I have had) to avoid bad Company, for that has been my utter Ruin. I hope all good Christians will not Reflect on my Unfortunate Wife and four small Children, for she was unsensible of my way of Life; for I always told her several different Stories how I got my Money; and if I had taken her Advice, I had never brought myself to this untimely End. I Die in Charity with all the World, and the Lord have Mercy upon my poor Soul.

12. Joseph Whitlock , about 27 Years old, of honest Parents in the Country, who bred him at School, instructed him in Christian Principles, and put him to a Horse-Farrier in the Country, to which Trade he served about four Years, and afterwards married, and liv'd by his Business, in which he might have been set up, to have succeeded very well. His Friends always gave him good Advice, but he was too neglectful of their Council; for he apply'd himself to the worst of Company, who at once ruin'd him. He own'd his committing many Robberies and Burglaries, in Company with Whitlock and their Associates, with several other Villanies, particularly the barbarous Robbery and Usuage of Colonel des Romaine, and his Maid; and the doing that Robbery, of which others were reputed Guilty. The Robbing a Man in Surrey , from whom among other Things, they took a small Cask of Brandy, with

which they were so Intoxicated, that taking the River at Kingston , three of them were taken at Putney fast a Sleep in a Boat.HWe seem'd to be a young Man of good Understanding, though wholly Corrupted with vicious Dispositions and Practices. Under Sentence his Carriage was Civil and Modest; he was Penitent; hop'd for Salvation through the Mercy of God in Christ, and Died in Peace with all Mankind.

The following Account, In Whitlock desir'd might be Publish'd in the Dying Speech. JOseph Whitlock , I was born in Wiltshire , put Apprentice to a Smith and Farier in Salisbury , where I serv'd my Master four Years; after which, I went away from him, by reason of a young Woman I kept Company with,whom I left behind me, and came up to London , destitute of all Friends, but got into Business in a very little Time, and continued therein for near five Years, well respected by all my Acquaintance. After the five Years expired, I married my Wife, who then lived at Lambeth where I settled, by whom I have had five Children, two whereof are now living, whom always behaved herself justly and honestly; we lived together for near six Years well respected; but being acquainted with Joseph Addison a Barber , who liv'd at Lambeth, and usually drinking with him at one W-n, who kept the Bell-Ale-house there, where Addison us'd, was drawn in by him frequently to Drink and lost my Time, which was the first bringing me to my unhappy Misfortunes, which began about two Years and a half a go, when myself, Addison, and another (through Addison's Persuasion) went to the Bishop of Canterbury's Palace and stole from thence six Geese, which we carried to W - n's the next Day, where we had one dressed that Night for Supper, and shar'd the other five among us, of which W-n had a Part. The next thing I committed through Addison's Instigation was, he hearing I had a Brother who liv'd in Church-Lane in Ragg-Fair , worth a great deal of Money, and knowing I could not keep his Company without Money, persuaded me to rob him, which I did, and at several Times took from him near 150 l. which I did in the following manner; being well respected by my Brother, I used every Sunday to go to see him, and under Pretence of brushing my Clothes in the Shop, I lean'd over the Counter and pulled out the Drawers, from whence I took the Money promiscuously.

Another time being of a Sunday, I went over as usual, and missing the Money in the Drawers (my Brother being in the Kitchen) and there being a Press Bed in the Shop wherein he used to lie; I took his Breeches from off the Teaster of the Bed, and took from

thence a Purse wherein was about Twenty-five Guineas, and in one of the Pockets about Ten Penny-worth of Half-pence, which I put into the Purse, and carried the Gold away, and went over the Water directly to Addison's and told him what I had done; and being set in the Shop a shaving, I saw my Brother pass by, and knowing myself Guilty went up into Addison's Room, and stay'd there till I heard by him they were gone, and then went to W-n's House, and sat drinking there the best Part of that Night.

The next Day myself and Addison went into the Country and stay'd till about two o'Clock the next Morning before we came home, where my Brother and another waited for me, and brought me over the Water, charging me with robbing him,which I stifly denied; and having an Opportunity tied the Money which I had left in the Tail of my Shirt, and about five Guineas in my Shoes, which upon searching me they found; but not pulling off my Breeches they did not find the Remainder; on which after Threatning they left me in the House and I got away, and went to my Companions at W-n's House, and told them all that happened, and what Money I had sav'd when we fell to drinking; but was informed by W-n, that my Brother had been there to make an Inquiry how I liv'd; when W-n told him that I was his Follower (he being Bailiff) and by that means got a great deal of Money, besides what I got by my own Business of a Farrier.

But one time in Particular (my Brother being Constable) Addison and the other persuaded me to go and rob him, which I did in the following manner; Addison, myself and the other, went from W-n's House while my Brother was at Church, when I opened the Door, they standing by to watch, and I robbed him of Fifty Guineas, a Silver Watch and a Ring, and came out again and lock'd the Street-door undiscovered.

The Money being spent, Addison proposed the Robbing of one Mr. Moore who lives at Lambeth , a Gentleman, he said, was worth some Thousand Pounds, which would be the Making of us, but wanting Money to buy Materials for such an Enter prize, W - advanced the Money, at the same telling us, he was indebted to his Brewer 100 l. and that he must have such a Sum if we succeed, which Addison promised he should, and 100 l more to it; we thereupon, that is myself, Addison, and the other, went into Monmouth street and provided our selves with Banyans, Masks, and Pistols, and proceeded to commit the Robbery in the following Manner: There being an Outer-gate, we easily drew back the Spring-lock, when Addison and the other went to the Inner-door, my self was posted at the Outer-gate, where was a Bell which I rung; when the Maid came to the Door, there being a Grate to look through, ask'd who was at the Gate? I ask'd her whether Mr. Moore was within,

and that I had a Letter for him, on which she opened the Door, and Addison and the other seized her; I followed them and went into the Room, where we found an old Woman, who begged us not to Murder her but take all she had; but asking for the Gentleman, was told he was in his Study up Stairs, on which I took a Candle and was going up to him, but on the Maid's crying out, he having heard her, as I suppose, I met him on the Stairs, and holding the Candle to see whether he had any Fire Arms, somehow with his Hands he shook the Candle out of my Hand, and the other Person at the same time letting the Maid go, she got open the Door and ran out crying Murder, Thieves, and Fire; when the other Person went after her with a Pretence of catching her, but never returned; on which we made our Escape without doing any thing. About 2 or 3 Days afterwards we were taken up on Suspicion, and carried before Justice Kent, who committed us to the New Goal in Surry , on a strong Suspicion of having intended to commit the said Robbery. When W - n fearing it would come out, and be charged therewith, went to the said Mr. Kent and made a Confession, which not being sufficient, Addison was admitted an Evidence; but before the Assizes came, I with two others made our Escape out of the said Goal and went to France , where I stay'd about seven Days, and then returned to London , and from thence to Bristol , where I work'd about six Weeks; but not being easy, came up to London again and stay'd some time; then I went down to Exeter , where I work'd some time; but not yet being easy, I came to a Place called Hindon near Salisbury , where I work'd about a Quarter of a Year; but there being a Robbery committed, and it being known that I escaped out of Goal, I was taken up on Suspicion, but nothing appearing against me, I was detain'd on account only of breaking the Goal, and was brought up to my old Confinement in order to take my Trial at Kingston Assizes, where I was acquitted; and there I became acquainted with Brown and Mitchel; and Brown liking my Conversation, sent to Lambeth to speak with me at his House at Paddington ; where we consulted to rob the King's Jeweller who had a House there; but being disappointed there, we went to the House of Colonel Des Romame, when Brown opened the Gate and knocking at the Door, the Colonel came to the Door, whom we robbed of a Watch, Plate, and Linnen of Value. After we came into the House we ty'd the Colonel, and blind folded him at the same time, he said, if you'll untye me I'll open the Locks myself, and went up Stairs accordingly and did so, then we brought him down again and ty'd him by the Maid, and afterwards we rifled the House, and went from thence about three o'Clock in the Morning. Some Days after which, we with Mitchel went on the Essex Road ,

and committed several Robberies near Gray's when we had robbed the Persons we ty'd them, and carried them into a Field together. And another time we waited for some Butchers coming from Rumford Market, where we stopped a Butcher and his Wife on Horse-back, the Man said he had no Money; on which Mitchel struck the Woman with a Stick on the Head, by which Blow she fell from the Horse and I catch'd her in my Arms; we robbed them of a small Matter, and afterwards ty'd them together with Cords, for which we were pursued but escaped.

Some time after this, Brown and my self, met at Johnston's House near Shoreditch (who is to be executed with me for the Murder of Taaman in Thames-street.) Then we went on the Edger Road , and near Edger just by the Wind-mill, we met with one Patridge a Farmer on Horse-back, about Eight o'Clock at Night, whom we dismounted, and made him go over a Gate into a Field, and from thence into another, where we robbed him of Thirty-five Shillings, a great Goat, a Hat, with a black Edge, and a Mourning Hat-band. We cut the Girths of the Saddle and I threw the Saddle over the Gate; we asked him whether he had been at London, and he told us no, he had been to make an Agreement with his Landlord about a Farm. We asked him further, whether he was a money'd Man, and he reply'd, no, he wanted Money as much as we did. This Robbery we committed about the Beginning of October last, the Day I cannot remember, but believe it to be the 8th.

From thence we went to London, and met the next Day at the Red-Lyon on Tower-Hill , in order to sell the great Coat and Hat; and from thence we went to Ragg-Fair , where on of us kept the Coat, and Brown kept the Hat, and allowed me my Share in Money; the Coat I took particular notice of, having wore it myself that Night, and it was tore up in the Back-seam about five or six Inches.

After this we went on the Surry Road and committed several Robberies, particularly a Gentleman who lived at Kingston, which was the last before we were taken; which after the following Manner, having been much fatigu'd that Day, and it being late, we came down to the Water-side, and got into a Boat on the Thames, thinking our-selves safe went to sleep, and it being noised about the Country the Robberies we had committed we were taken.

I have nothing more to add, but begg all young People will take Warning by me, and heartily Desire no Person will reflect on my poor Wife, who always was a dutiful one to me, and always persuaded me from those evil Courses, which brought me to my shameful End.

Elizabeth Wright , Mary Wright her Daughter, and John Knight , her Son, were indicted for High Treason, for having in their Custody, in the House of Richard Wright , a Pair of Chalk-Moulds, in which was the Impression of a Sixpence, without any lawful Cause for so having, May the 4th.

They were a second Time indicted, for concealing the said Moulds, in the House of Richard Wright , May the 4th.

Elizabeth Wright found Guilty of both Indictments, Mary Wright and John Knight acquitted.

Elizabeth Wright , and Mary Wright , were a third Time indicted for High Treason, in Coining 20 Pieces of counterfeit Money, in the Likeness of Shillings; and of this Indictment. Elizabeth and Mary Wright were found Guilty, and appointed to be burnt by Law. Though Mary receiv'd His Majesty's most gracious Reprieve; but the Sentence was executed upon the Mother.

13. Elizabeth Wright , towards 50 Years of Age, born in Ireland , of honest Parents, who educated her at School, and instructed her in Principles of Christianity. She married a Tradesman named Knight, to her first Husband, who was Father to John Knight , her Son, indicted with her and her Daughter Mary Wright , and acquitted. With this Husband she liv'd in Friendship, and retain'd her Character for some Years: After his Decease, she got another Husband named Wright, Father to the Daughter Mary, under the same fatal Sentence with her, and she had some more Children in Ireland. Some Years ago, she came acquainted with the Secret of Coining false or counterfeit Money, which she made at Home, and utter'd what she could of it there; but afraid of a Discovery, she came to England , thinking to carry on the Cheat some Time longer here, though Providence did not suffer her to prosper long in such a wicked way; but being discover'd by an Accomplice, nam'd. Alice Dearing , she was soon brought to her deserv'd Catastrophy. She cried and lamented constantly, and spoke always with great Sympathy of her Children who, (as she said) were not guilty of her Crime, though the Proof was plain against her Daughter Mary. She inclin'd to dissemble and deny the Fact, but the Evidence being so clear, that she could not with Confidence shun an Acknowledgment. She was serious at Prayers and Exhor

tations, but very passionate, when she mention'd the Evidence. I press'd her to a Christian Patience and Resignation to the Will of God. She own'd she had been a great Sinner, and that she suffer'd deservedly. She was Penitent, believ'd in Christ, and heartily forgave all Injuries, as she hop'd for Forgiveness from God.

At the Place of Execution.

THEY all seem'd to be very Devout in Prayers, and likewise when the Psalm was Sung. Being desir'd the Morning of their Execution, by a Gentleman, to ask Joseph Whitlock , if he knew any thing of the Murder and Robbing the Porter, of a great Sum of Money, not far from Lambeth some time ago? He answer'd, that he knew nothing of that Murder and Robbery, and that with an Asseveration, as he hop'd to see the Face of God in Mercy, William Brown Spoke to the same Purpose, and both of them said, they never had any hand in Murder. William Johnson had no more to add to his former Confessions; to which all of them adher'd. Thomas Whitby wept most bitterly that Morning in Chapel, as did William Brown ; and likewise at the Place of Execution. Cullington bless'd his Prosecutor, calling him a good and honourable Gentleman. When they all was ty'd up, Elizabeth Wright was lifted out of the Sledge into the Cart, when she first came into it, she cry'd out, seemingly with some Passion against Dearing the Evidence; I intreated her to be Patient and Submissive, and then she compos'd herself, and was very Attentive along with the rest of her Fellow Sufferers to my Prayers for them; after Prayers was ended, she was taken out of the Cart, by one of the Sheriffs Officers for the County of Middlesex, and carried behind him to the Stake, in order to undergoe her Sentence, which was first to be Strangled, and then to be Burnt, which was accordingly Executed on Her, between the Hours of One and Two. The rest of the Prisoners before the Cart drew away, crying to God to have Mercy upon them, and that Christ would receive their Souls.

This is all the Account given by Me

James Guthrie .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

This Day is publish'd, Vol. II.

(Price 3 s. 6 d.)

With a Frontispiece of Catherine Hayes , of the Contrivance of the Murder of her Husband John Hayes ,

THE Lives of the most remarkable Criminals who have been condemned and executed, either for the Highway, Street Robberies, Burglaries, Murders, or other capital Offences, from the Year 1720, to the present Time: Containing particularly the Lives of the famous JONATHAN WILD , Edward Burnwroth , alias Frazier , Blewit, Berry, Dickenson, Majorum and Higgs, for the Murder of Mr. Ball in St. George's Fields ; Catherine Hayes , for the barbarous Murder of her Husband; Forster Snow , for the Murder of a Man in his House in Holborn ; Thomas Billings , concern'd with Catherine Hayes , in the Murder of Mr. Hayes; Thomas Smith , a Highwayman, and Capt. Jean, for the Murder of his Cabin-Boy, &c. &c. &c.

Printed and sold by John Applebee in Bolt-Court , Fleet-street ; A Bettesworth and C. Hitch, at the Red Lyon in Pater-noster-Row; J. Pemberton, at the Golden Buck against St. Dunstan's Church; J. Isted, at the Golden Ball near Chancery-Lane, Fleet-street; E. Symon, at the Royal Exchange; R. Ware, at the Bible and Sun in Amen-Corner, near Pater-noster Row; W. Mears, at the Lamb, the Corner of Bell-Savage Inn on Ludgate-Hill; Richard Wellington , at the Dolphin and Crown ; and Mrs. Dodd, at the Peacock without Temple-Bar.

Where may be had, Vol. I.

N. B. Vol. III. is in the Press, and will be publish'd with all convenient Expedition.

The Publick may depend on the Accounts publish'd in this Work, as containing a just and faithful Narration of the Conduct of these unhappy Persons, and a true State of their respective Crimes, without any Additions of feigning and romantick Adventures, calculated meerly to entertain the Curiosity of the Reader.

This Day is publish'd,

No IV. Containing eight Sheets in Folio, stitch'd in Blue Paper (Price One Shilling) to be continued every Month 'till the whole is finish'd, of

THE NEW TESTAMENT, with Critical and Explanatory Notes, extracted from the Writings of the celebrated Grotius, Hammond, Calmet, Locke, Poole, Whitby, Burkitt, and other curious modern Annotators. In one Volume in Folio.

The whole will be comprised in about 200 Sheets, printed on a fine Dutch Demy Paper, and good Character.

Printed and sold by R. Penny, in Wine-Office-Court Fleet-street; where Subscriptions are taken in as also by J. Crichley, at the London-Gazette, Charing-Cross; J. Milan, the Corner of Buckingham-Court, near the Admiralty-Office; W. Shropshire, in New Bondstreet; J. Lewis, in Flower-de-Luce-Court, in Fleet-street; J. Booth, in Barking-Alley, near Great Tower-Hill; T. Payne, in Bishopsgate-street; J. Webb, at Greenwich; J. Philpott, at Winchester, W. Ayres, Printer, in Reading; and at the Booksellers and Pamphlet Shops of London and Westminster.

ELectuarium Mirable; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed and Safety, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement, Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easy in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat a Cure in most Cases. To be had (with Directions at large) only of the Author. Dr. C A M, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at, his House, at the Golden Hall in Bow-Church-yard, Cheapside, a Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-seller's-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to Spoke with on any Occasion. And tho' by their specious Pretences) you are promised a Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His National and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practical Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease, in Three Parts, viz. 1. On the Simple Gonorrhaea, Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces, Self-pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaeas or Clap. III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Eay on the Rheumatism and Cout, Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions, Price 6 d. And his Dissertation on the Pox. Dedicated to Sir Hans Sloane . Price 1 s. 6 d. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhill; L. Midwinter in St. Paul's-Churchyard, and at the Ant's House before mention'd.

Dr. Nelson's most wonderful PANACEA, by, the The Original, Inestimable, Angelical ELECTUARY, CONFIRM'D VENEREAL DISEASE, And all the Relicks or Remains of it in the Blood which it infallibly eradicates, tho' of ever so long standing, it having been above thirty Years experienc'd to be the only safe and sure Remedy for that hateful Distemper, that was ever known or discovered.

IT curing so easily, and insensibly, as to any Disorder it gives, Confinement it requires, or Suspicion it occasions, that it is admir'd and recommended by all that have taken it, for it neither purges, vomits, nor salivates, but cures by its Alterative, Antiereal Qualities, in so much that Children and the weakest and most tender or crazy constitution'd People may take it at all times of the Year, and go about with it as if they had taken nothing, as may likewise those who have been brought near the Grave, by repeated unsuccessful Salivations, or other violent, or too frequent Purgations, or Vomits; for it restores as well as clears the Blood, Head, and whole Habit, of all the lurking poisonous Taint, and Mercury tho' never so secretly lodg'd in the Body; wherefore let none of these unfortunate People despair, but try it, and they will be comfortably convinc'd of the Truth of what is here said of it,

Persons who are pox'd to the last Degree, their whole Mass of Blood being contaminated, and have been told that nothing but a Salivation would Cure them tho' they Labour under tormenting Pains in the Head, Limbs or Joints; or have breakings out, Scabs, Blotches, Boiles, or Spots; or have Swellings, Nodes Sores or Ulcers, either in their Throat, Nose, or elsewhere, with weariness in the Limbs, Faintness and Weakness of the whole Body, &c. may intirely rely upon it, only, that according to the Degree of the Infection, they must take it and continue it for a longer or shorter Time.

Such as have only some Relicks of the Disease, or but suspect that their Blood has got a Smatch of the Taint, by some unusual Uneasinesses about them, which they now and then feel, either from ill manag'd Claps, or other doubtful Cures, should never venture to marry, if they are single, nor meddle with their Wives if marry'd, till they are sure they are safe, as they most certainly will be, upon their only taking a Pot or two of it.

It is a pleasant to take, as well as , its ; and cleanse, Nourishes and Restores, the most weak and worn out Constitutions.

Price 5 s. the Tin pot, prepar'd only by the Doctor abovesaid, and left by him, at Mr. Isted's Book-seller at the Golden Bul Dunstan's Church in Fleet-street; where it may be had; by any Messenger, ready sealed up, with Directions how to take it, by only asking the Panacea.

BEING a SPEEDY Cure for Coughs, Colds, Asthma's, Phthisick, Wheezings, difficult Breathings, and shortness of Breath. It overcomes the most grounded Coughs, tho' of never so long standing, and perfectly Cures them in a very little Time; 'Tis found to be the most sure help, and the only Medicine in the World for old Consumptions, Phthisicks, Colds, Wheezings, Asthma's, shortness of Breath, and all other Diseases of the breast and Lungs, restoring those that are lent off by Physiians, remaining in utter Despair under the Burthen of their miserable Lives.

It dissolves congealed Phlegm in the Thorax; takes away the tickling in the Aspera Arterea; heals rawness and soreness of the Lungs, Breast, and Stomach, causing easy Expectoration; cures vehement Catarrahs, Distillation of Rheum, and all Fluxes of Humours, falling upon any of the Noble parts. It gives immediate Relief as soon as taken, in the severest of Coughing, and so perfectly frees the Patient at once. This Preparation is much more effectual than any Liquids, or Tinctures: A Tincture may give Ease by its Opiate Nature, but this Electuary, by its balsamick and uile property, effectually performs the Cure.

Note, this is the Electuary, by which, many Hundreds were cured last Winter of the aforesaid Distempers; and not one Person that used it, but had a perfect Cure: And that the Publick may not be imposed upon by Counterfeits, and base Pretenders, each Pot is Sealed with two Dragons, and the Author's Name at length, as above, all others are Counterfeits.

Prepar'd and sold by the Author, a Chymist, at his House the second Door on the Right Hand in Bride-Lane, near Fleet-street; where any Shop-Keepers may be furnish'd therewith, with Allowance. 'Tis also sold at Mr. Robotham's Toyshop, next the Grid-Iron, White Chappel-Bars. At the Mitre in Jewin-street. At Mr. Neal's Toyshop, over against the White-Hart Inn in the Borough of Southwark; and Mr. Greg's, Bookseller, next Northumberland-House, Charing-Gross. At One Shilling a Pot.

Where is also Sold,

A Cephalick Snuff for the Head, it is very Pourful against all effects of the Brain, as Appoplexies, Epilepsies, Palsies, Vertigos, Migrems, Vapours, stupidity of Senses, loss of Memory; it quickens the Sight, strengthens the Brain, purges the Head of all noiseous Humours that occasions the Headach One Shilling a paper.

