THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at Tyburn on Friday the 13th of February, 1718/1719.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily , on Friday the 5th, and Saturday the 6th, and thence adjourn'd to Monday the 8th of December, 1718, Four Malefactors, viz. 3 Men and 1 Woman, that were Try'd for, and Convicted of several Capital Crimes, accordingly receiv'd Sentence of Death. And at the last Quarter Sessions held at the same Place on Thursday the 15th, Friday the 16th, Saturday the 17th, and thence adjourn'd to Monday the 19th of January, 1718/1719, Fifteen Persons, viz. 12 Men and 3 Women, that were then likewise Convicted of diverse Capital Crimes, did also receive such a Sentence: But of the former number the Woman being found Pregnant, and one of the Men graciously Repriev'd; and of the latter, another Woman also Pregnant, and the other two, with 5 of the Men, having likewise obtain'd the Mercy of a Reprieve, which I wish they may duly improve; and to all these one being added, who dy'd in the Hold on the 6th instant, 8 only are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay under this Condemnation, I constantly visited them every Day, either in the Condemn'd Hold, or in the Chapel of Newgate ; where I pray'd with them, and read and expounded the Scriptures to them, endeavouring to give them a true Notion of the Duties of Christianity, by shewing them on the one hand the exceeding great Reward attending the Performance, and on the other the unexpressible Misery unavoidably ensuing upon the wilful Neglect thereof. These were the things I chiefly labour'd day by day to make them sensible of, in order to the bringing them to true Repentance and Amendment of Life, and thereby to Eternal Salvation: And,

On the Lord's Day the 7th of December last (the Day before their receiving Sentence of Death) I preach'd to them, in the Morning and Afternoon, on Rom. 15 4. being part of the Epistle for the Day, and the Words these; For what soever things were written aforetime were written for our Learning, that we through Patience and Comfort of the Scripture might have Hope.

In my discoursing upon these Words (after a general Explanation of them) I consider'd severally these three Expressions in them, viz.

I. It is written.

II. A .

III. For our Learning.

Observing,

From the{ 1st, The Authority 2d, The Antiquity 3d, The Usefulness of the Scriptures. And from the Whole prov'd, That Men's Spiritual Miscarriages often proceed from their prodigious Neglect of Reading and Hearing with devout Attention the Word of GOD, which is written for their Learning, for their Instruction and Comfort, and which (if duly obey'd) will be a happy Mean to keep them from Sin and Everlasting Damnation, and also preserve them unto Eternal Life.

On the Lord's Day the 14th of the same Month of December last, I preach'd to them (both in the Morning and Afternoon) on part of the Gospel appointed for that Day, viz. Matt. 11. 10. For this is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my Messenger before thy Face, which shall prepare thy Way before thee.

In speaking to which Words, I shew'd,

I. Who that Messenger was, viz. St. John the Baptist; and what was the Life he led, viz. a Life of Austerity and strict Piety, shunning all the vain Pomps and Delights of the World, as it became One that was a Preacher of Humility and Repentance, in order to prepare Men's Hearts for their embracing the Gospel of CHRIST. And here I took occasion to observe, How necessary it is for Men to read the Scriptures, and (by a constant practice of them) make themselves well acquainted with them; which containing both the Mysteries of God's Holy Religion, and the Means of Eternal Life and Salvation, were therefore often quoted and referr'd to by our Blessed Saviour himself; as we may see here in the Text, and in several other Places in the Book of GOD.

Then I proceeded to shew,

II. What the Subject of that Message was, of which the Text speaks, viz. the Preaching of Repentance and Amendment of Life.

On those two Points I enlarg'd, and particularly on the latter; shewing,

1. The true Nature 2. The absolute Necessity 3. The great Danger in the Neglect or Delay 4. The blessed Fruits of Repentance.

On the Lord's Day the 21st of December last I preach'd to them again, Morning and Afternoon, upon Mark 13. 26. And then shall they see the Son of Man coming in the Clouds with great Power and Glory.

These Words (pointing to the Last Coming of Christ, to which His First had a reference) I first open'd and explain'd in general, and then did from them shew in particular.

I. The Certainty of Christ's Coming at the last Day to Judge the World.

II. The Uncertainty of the Time when He shall come.

III. ult. The great Concern it is to all Men, and the constant Care they should take, to be always prepar'd, as for that Day, so for Death, which will presently usher them into Judgment; for as soon as the Soul is separated from the Body, a Sentence is then privately pass'd upon it, either of Absolution or Condemnation, and that Sentence (which is never to be revers'd) will be publickly confirm'd, and also extended to the Body, at the Day of the general Resurrection, when all must appear before the Judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in the Body, according to that he has done, whether it be good or bad, 2 Cor. 5. 10.

And on the Day of CHRIST's Nativity I did again preach to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, on part of the Epistle appointed for that Day, viz. Heb. 1. 1, 2. the Words being these; God, who at sundry times, and in diverse manners, spake in time past unto the Fathers by the Prophets, has in these last Days spoken unto us by his Son, whom He has appointed Heir of all things, by whom also He made the Worlds.

From which Words (first explain'd with their Context, and illustrated by parallel Places, and other Texts in general) I spoke to these two Points; in particular shewing,

I. The Agreement II. Tho Difference between the Old and New Testament.

1. The Agreement, which consists in these; 1st, That One GOD speaks in both, viz. in the former by His Servants: In the latter by His Own Son. 2dly, That the same GOD is the Author, and the same CHRIST the Subject of both Testaments, which are in each other; the Law being an Hidden Gospel, and the Gospel a Reveal'd Law.

2. The Difference between the Two Testaments, which is with respect of these Circumstances, 1st, The Times when, 2dly, The Ways how, 3dly, The Persons to whom, And, 4thly, The Persons of whom, and by whom, GOD spake.

On the Lord's Day the 28th of the said Month of December, I preach'd to them again, in the Morning and Afternoon, and my Text was, Gal. iv. 4, & 5. But when the fulness of the Time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a Woman, made under the Law, to redeem them that were under the Law, that we might receive the Adoption of Sons.

In my Explanation of which Text, I consider'd chiefly these five Particulars, viz.

I. The Time which God the Father had appointed to send His Son into the World; which the Apostle here calls, The Fulness of Time.

II. Christ, the Eternal Son of God the Father his taking our Nature upon Him, describ'd by this Phrase, God sent forth his Son made of a Woman.

III. His being subject to the Law; as it is plainly express'd by these Words of the Text, Under the Law.

IV. The End of Christ's Incarnation and Subjection to the Law, viz. To redeem them that were under the Law.

V. ult. The great Benefit accruing to us from this Redemption, which is (says the Text) That we might receive the Adoption of Sons.

To all these I distinctly spoke, and from them rais'd Arguments for a holy Life, shewing how we ought to repent of all our Sins past, and how to amend whatever we have done amiss by departing for the future from all Iniquity, and serving GOD in Purity and true Holiness all our Days; by which we shall not only demonstrate that we have a true Value for what Christ has done and suffer'd for Mankind, but through Mercy obtain an Interest in, and Salvation by Him.

Again on Circumcision-day, being Thursday the 1st of January, I preach'd to them on part of the Epistle appointed for that Day, viz. Rom. 4. 9. Blessed is the Man to whom the Lord will not impute Sin. Cometh this Blessedness then upon the Circumcision only, or upon the Uncircumcision also? For we say, that Faith was reckon'd to Abraham for Righteousness.

These Words I first explain'd in general, giving an Account of Circumcision, with the Use and Import of it; and then I particularly spoke to the Blessedness meant therein; chiefly shewing what a happy thing it was to have our Sins Pardon'd, signified by this first Clause of the Text, Blessed is the Man to whom the Lord will not impute Sin. In which I consider'd distinctly these Things, viz. That there is in Sin,

I. An Offence against GOD, which is said to be forgiven.

II. A Filthiness, which is said to be cover'd.

III. A Guilt, which is said, not to be imputed; that is, not to be liable to any Punishment, no more than if it never had been committed.

On the Lord's Day the 4th of January I preach'd again to the Condemn'd and other Prisoners there, in the Forenoon and Afternoon, on Prov. 28. 13. From which Text, having first observ'd how the Wise-man opposes Confession and Dereliction of Sins to a Concealment or Hiding of them (wherein he shews the different Effects of both) I then proceeded to speak chiefly to these, viz.

I. That a free Confession of Sin is a most necessary part of Repentance.

II. That the Forsaking of our Sins is an evident Proof of the Sincerity of it.

III. ult. That the Effects and Benefits of such a Confession and Repentance, are Pardon and Forgiveness, the Favour of GOD, and Eternal Life, which are very great, blessed, and most comfortable Things to a true Penitent Soul, who by these is,

1st, Supported under, and (in a great measure) freed from present Misery.

2dly, Deliver'd from the dismal Fears of another World.

3dly, Reconcil'd to GOD, restor'd to His Favour, and establish'd in the Faith. And all these through the unspeakable Mercy of a good and gracious GOD, and the Infinite Merits of JESUS CHRIST, our most Blessed Lord and Saviour.

And again on the Lord's Day the 11th of January I did (both in the Morning and Afternoon) preach upon this Text, being part of the Epistle appointed for that Day, and the Words these, Rom. 12. 2. And be not conform'd to this World; but be ye transform'd by the renewing of your Mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect Will of God.

From which Words, first explain'd in general, I shew'd in particular,

I. What's the Import of this twofold Precept, 1st, in the Negative, Be not conform'd - &c.

2dly, in the Affirmative, Be ye transform'd - &c.

II. The Reward attending our due Performance of it and the great Encouragement we have hereto; which I set forth under several Particulars, too many here to be specify'd.

Having largely and distinctly discours'd upon those Heads and Particulars, I concluded all the 'foremention'd Sermons with suitable Exhortations and Applications to the Condemn'd, who (as far as I could perceive) behav'd themselves as it became Persons under their Unhappy Circumstances, expressing great Sorrow for their past Sins, and a Resolution to lead a new Life, if GOD would be pleas'd to spare them a longer time in this World. I hope those of them who have obtain'd their Desire herein, will remember their Promise to GOD and Man, and be so considerate, and so just, as to lead that Life which they have promis'd and acknowledg'd to be both their Duty and Interest to live.

Upon the Lord's Day the 18th of January last, when there was a new Accession of 15 Malefactors more, that receiv'd Sentence of Death this last Sessions, I preach'd to them all, both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, upon part of the Epistle for the Day, viz. Rom. 12. the former part of the 10th Verse; Be kindly affection'd one toward another, with Brotherly Love.

And as I do of course preach every Lord's Day (and solemn Fast-Day) twice throughout the Year, to all the Prisoners (Debtors and others) in general, so I did more particularly (both in the Morning and Afternoon) to them under Sentence of Death, on these following Days, viz. Sunday the 25th, and Friday the 30th of January last; on Sundays the 1st and 8th instant, and on Wednesday last, being the First Day of Lent, upon the following Texts, which I shall only name, viz.

St. Matt. 19. 18. Thou shalt do no Murder.

Tit. 3. 1. Put them in mind to be subject to Principalities and Powers: To obey Magistrates: To be ready to every good Work.

1 Pet. 4. 7. The End of all Things is at hand: Be ye therefore sober, and watch unto Prayer.

Joh 14. 14. If a Man die, shall he live again? All the Days of my appointed Time will I watch till my Change come.

Joel 2. 12. Therefore also now saith the Lord, Turn ye even to Me, with all your Heart, and with Fasting, and with Weeping, and with Mourning.

From which Texts, first severally open'd and explain'd, I took occasion to treat of the chief Points of Religion, viz. Man's Love to GOD and to his Neighbour, Faith, Repentance, &c. which are indispensable Duties to be carefully exerted by all Men as long as they remain in this mortal State, that when their Great Change comes, they may find it a Happy Change, and have an Entrance into the Everlasting Habitations of Bliss and Glory. All these being proper for me to offer (and for them to take) to their Consideration, I endeavour'd to instruct them in, and perswade them to the practice of them, while they had this Time allotted them for this weighty Concern. They seem'd very attentive to, and mindful of those Exhortations which I gave them, and by which I endeavour'd to bring them to Repentance and Salvation. - And those of their number now order'd for Execution, gave me the respective Accounts of themselves which follow, viz.

1. Richard Spackman , condemn'd for assaulting and robbing on the Highway near Pancras Church , 1st, Mrs. Eliz. Griffith , on the 15th of November last; and 2dly, Mr. John Smith , on the 22d of the same Month. He said, he was 40 Years of age, born in the City of Oxford : That when but young, his Friends brought him up to London , and bound him to a Watchmaker in Fleet-lane , with whom he serv'd his whole Time, which when expir'd he wrought for himself for a while, and then went to Sea , and made two Voyages (in Merchantmen) to the East-Indies , in which Service he spent about 5 Years: That at his Return, he wrought a little (as he had done abroad) at his Trade of Watchmaking ; and after that went to Sea again, and serv'd the Crown in the Mountague, a Man of War, for 3 or 4 Years, off and on; and in the Intervals (while at Land) apply'd himself to his first Calling of Watchmaker ; which, when he had quitted the Sea-Service, he follow'd altogether, and hir'd a House in Turnagain-lane , where he liv'd with his Wife, and work'd for some

don, and pleaded it at the Old-baily on the 16th of August, 1715, the Conditions of that Pardon (which he did not observe) being, That he should transport himself within 6 months out of His Majesty's Dominions in Europe; and wanting that Grace whereby he might improve this Mercy, he not only fell in again among his wicked Acquaintance, but return'd to his former Trade of Thieving, which at last brought him to this second Condemnation; and tho' he deny'd the Fact, yet he own'd the Justice of GOD in thus punishing him for other Offences he had formerly committed, and now heartily repented of.

6. John Prior , convicted of, and condemn'd for, several Robberies by him committed on the High-way with Robert Vickers and Francis Parquot ; 1st, For Assaulting and Robbing William Spinnage , Gent . and taking from him a Purse with 14 Guineas and a half-Guinea, a Watch value 8 l. and other things, as he was riding in a Hackney-Coach in Faringdon-lane near Hornsey , on the 18th of August last. 2dly, For a like Assault and Robbery by them jointly committed on the Person of George Floyer Esq ; on Horseback, near Tottenham-Court , in the Parish of St. Pancras , from whom they took a pair of Pistols value 40 s. and a Gelding value 30 l. on the 18th of Sept. last. And, 3dly, For such another Assault and Robbery which the said Prior and Vickers committed on Mr. William Squire , who was by them very roughly handled, and threatned to be kill'd (besides their taking from him 5 Guineas, a Watch with a Chain and Seal, and 10 s. in Silver, near the Turnpike at Tottenham ) without any regard to the said Mr. Squire's Character, being one of HIS MAJESTY's Messengers . This John Prior said, he was 34 years of age, born at Caisoo in Bedfordshire : That he follow'd Husbandry while in the Country: That leaving both Husbandry and Country, he came up to London above 4 years ago, and listed himself into the 2d Regiment of Foot-Guards : That soon after this, he giving way to a lewd Life, was by the Evidence against him (one of his Accomplices) soon enticed into the commission of many ill Facts with him, particularly those he now stood condemn'd for, which he freely confess'd he was guilty of; and said, That when himself and Vickers assaulted Mr. Squire, Francis Parquot was not with them; but that he was in their Company, and assisted them in the two other Robberies, and likewise in several other Facts of the like nature, for which he the said Prior had made all the amends he could, by sending to the Persons he had any ways injur'd; adding (which Vickers also confirm'd) That Willoughby Strickland , who was try'd for these Facts and acquitted, was not in the least concern'd in them, nor in any other with them; and that the said Strickland knew not they were engag'd in such Courses. He was very ignorant, and could not so much as read; yet seem'd to be very sensible of this, That he could not expect GOD's Mercy without true Repentance; which he therefore endeavour'd to stir up himself to, and desir'd my Prayers for him, and Instructions to him, which he said he would observe; and so I believe he did.

7. Robert Vickers , condemn'd for the 3 Facts before mention'd, which he freely confess'd his being concern'd in the commission of. He said, he was about 23 years of age, born at Nethercot in Warwickshire : That when but very young he went from thence to Westbury in Buckinghamshire , where he was bound Apprentice to a Baker ; and his Time being expir'd, he came up to London , and was Journey-man to a Baker in Cow-cross , and afterwards to another in Golden-Lane , in the Parish of St. Giles Cripplegate : That about 4 years ago he growing weary of his Imployment, listed himself into the 2d Regiment of Foot-Guards , where he had not been very long before he began to be loose, and follow ill Courses; owning, That (besides the Facts he stood condemn'd for) he had committed several others of that sort, but never kill'd any Person; which, he said, was no small Comfort to him. Upon this, I desir'd him (and the rest) to consider, that when a Man is wilfully engag'd in an Unlawful Act (such as those they were guilty of) he thereby exposes himself to the temptation and hazard of committing the heinous Crime of Murder, or forcing the Person Assaulted to take away the Assaulter's Life for the Safety and Preservation of his own. Of

this he seem'd now to be sensible, saying, He heartily repented of all the Sins he had actually committed, and of his Presumption in putting himself into Danger of committing more. He declar'd, That Francis Parquot was not with him in the Robbery committed on the Person of Mr. Squire, but was in those of Esq; Floyer and Mr. Spinnage, as he also had been in several others: And he further said, That (for his part) he had sent, and made all the Satisfaction he could, to the Persons he had wrong'd, and humbly begg'd GOD's Pardon and theirs.

8. Francis Parquot , condemn'd for being concern'd and acting in the Robberies committed by Prior and Vickers before-nam'd, on the Persons of Esq; Floyer and Mr. Spinnage. He said, he was 30 Years of age, born in France , at a Sea-port Town call'd Marines , near Rochel : That about 15 Years since he came into England, and liv'd 3 Years with a French Jeweller , and then came away from him: That when he had left his Master he went to the City of Bath , and there kept a Shop for some time; but being in Debt, was forc'd to leave that Place, and come up to London , where he privately follow'd his Occupation. He deny'd the Facts for which he stood condemn'd, and which his Companions, Prior and Wickers, told me (and that too before his Face) he was as much guilty of as themselves; and yet he obstinately persisted in his Denial; who all-along behav'd himself so, and shew'd so much Unwillingness to come to Prayer, and receive good Instructions, that I'm afraid he was too regardless of his Future State, shewing no Concern for it in the least, till he came very near the time of his Death.

At the Place of Execution, to which seven were carry'd from Newgate in 3 Carts this Day, and Parquot in a Coach, I attended them for the last time, and with my usual Exhortations, Prayers, singing of Penitential Psalms, and other Acts of Religion, endeavour'd finally to dispose them for a better State. They said they had nothing to add to what they told me before concerning the Facts they died for, or any other; only William Ward and Samuel Lynn confess'd, That about a Twelvemonth ago they took from off a Coach standing at the Spread-Eagle-Inn in Gracechurch-street , a Portmanteau with Goods in it belonging to Dr. Tilburg; and had also been concern'd together in several such Facts, but could not particularly recollect themselves about them. Then they desir'd the Standers-by to pray for them, and take Warning by them. After this, and my repeated Prayers for their Souls happy passage and admission into the Mansions of Everlasting Bliss and Glory, I withdrew from them; and then William Ward said something to the People, which I did not distinctly hear. This done, they all apply'd themselves to their private Devotion, for which they had some Time allotted; and as they were calling on GOD for Mercy, thro' the Merits of JESUS CHRIST, the Cart they were put into drew away, and they were turn'd off.

NB. As I was retiring from them, a Letter was deliver'd me from a Gentlewoman, desiring me to ask Vickers, Whether he was not concern'd with one Holloway in robbing her of 250 Guineas, 3 or 4 Crown-pieces, 3 Rings, and a Snuff box, about 5 or 6 miles on this side St. Albans , in October last: To which he reply'd, He knew Nothing of the Matter, us he was a dying Man.

This is all the Account here to be given of these Dying Malefactors, by me,

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary .

Advertisements.

ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-lane , Selleth all sorts of Bibles and Common Prayers, viz. The Three new large Folio Bibles, printed at Oxford: The English and French Common Prayer: All sorts of Common Prayer-books, illustrated with Sturt's Cuts, Vander Gucht's best Cuts or painted Cuts (rul'd or unrul'd) or without; bound in Shagrine, with Silver Work or without, or in any other manner of Binding: Neat Pocket Bibles, with the Cambridge Concordance: Books of Devotion, the Sacrament, History, &c. And all sorts of Bibles, Common Prayers, and other Books for the Use of Charity (and other) Schools. Likewise the Statutes at large, Books of Homilies, Duty of Man, &c. and Letter-Cases of all sorts, by Wholesale and Retail. Note, Also Welsh Bibles and Common Prayers.

In the Press, and will speedlily be Publish'd, the 5th Edition of

THE Works of Mr. Tho. Brown , Serious, Moral, and Comical, in Prose and Verse, with his Amusements: adapted to the Meridian of London, at the present Time: And Letters from the Dead to the Living, corrected from the Errors of the former Impression; adorn'd wit beautiful Cuts, newly defign'd and engrav'd by the best Masters To which is added, The Life and Character of Mr. Brown, and his Writings: Now recommended to the Publick by Sir Richard Steel . In 4 neat Pocket Volumes, on a new Letter.

Next Week will be Publish'd,

A Brief Declaration and Vindication of the Doctrine of the Trinity, as also of the Person and Satisfaction of CHRIST, accommodated to the Capacity and Use of such as may be in Danger of being seduc'd: And the Establishment the Truth, John 5. 39. Search the Scriptures: By John Owen , D. D. The 6th Edition, price 1 s. NB. Those Persons that have sent, and those that are dispos'd to buy Dozens of them to give away, may now be supply'd, at 10 s. a Dozen, by Joseph Marshall , at the Bible in Newgate-street . Where likewise may be had (just Printed) Dr. Owen's Evidences of the Faith of OOD's Elect. The 2d Edit. pr. 1 s.

Sold by S. BRISCOE, near Mr. Mist's in Carter-lane. Price 3 d.

[Missing page images]

