THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTOR Who was Executed at TYBURN, ON FRIDAY the 8th of JUNE, 1744.

BEING THE Second EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble. Sir Robert Westley , Knt. LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

Number II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court, near the Leg-Tavern, Fleet-street. M,DCC,XLIV.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon. Sir ROBERT WESTLEY , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Hon. Mr. Baron CARTER; the Hon. Mr. Justice BURNET; the Hon. Mr. Justice DENNISON; the Hon. Sir SIMON URLIN , Knt. Recorder of the City of London; and Others his Majesty's Justices for the City of London , and County of Middlesex , and Justices of Goal-delivery for London and Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Wednesday and Thursday, the 22d and 23d of February.

TWO Men, viz. Charles Cleaver , and Tho. Wyton , were by the Jury, convicted of capital Offences, and received Sentence of Death.

AND, at another Sessions of Oyer and Terminer, &c. held before the Rt. Hon. Sir ROBERT WESTLEY , Knt. Lord Mayor of London, &c.

ONE Woman, viz. Elizabeth Mills , was convicted of a capital Crime, and sentenced to die.

AS also, At the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-delivery of Newgate, held, (before the Right Hon. Sir ROBERT WESTLEY , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London; the Hon. Mr. Justice BURNET; the Hon. Mr. Baron CLARKE; the Hon. Sir SIMON URLIN , Knt. Recorder of the City of London, and Others, his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 10th, 11th, and 12th of May, and in the 17th Year of his Majesty's Reign.

FOUR Men, viz. Henry Cole , Hugh Connor , Robert Fuller , and Robert Rockett ; and two Women, viz. Sarah Lowther , alias Rockett , and Ann Terry , were convicted of capital Crimes and sentenced to die.

While under Sentence, they were seriously exhorted to think upon the Evil of their Ways and Doings, how we are conceiv'd in Sin, and brought forth in Iniquity, deserving to be cast out of God's Presence, because of original Guilt, the Sin of our first Father Adam, imputed to us; for who can bring a clean Thing out of an unclean? This we call original Sin, over which we ought to cry incessantly unto God, that He who made us, may have Mercy upon us, and cleanse us from all our Sins, original and actual, of Omission or Commission, that so being purified from all Uncleanness of the Body and the Spirit, we may be presented Holy and without Spot, and rebukeable before God, in the great Day of our Lord Jesus Christ.

UPON Thursday the 31st of May, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the Malefactors abovemention'd under Sentence of Death in the Cells of Newgate, when Charles Cleaver , for robbing Mr. Richard Pidgeon of one Shilling and Five-pence, and Mr. Abraham Constable ,

of sixteen Shillings; Robert Fuller , upon the Black-Act, for feloniously shooting at Francis Bailey ; Robert Rockett , for robbing Richard Pidgeon , in the Streets; Ann Terry , for the Murder of her Bastard Child; Isabella Mills , for stealing a Silver Tankard: These received his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve for Transportation.

N. B. Hugh Connor , was convicted Capitally for an attrocious Robbery in a Gentlewoman's House of a great Quantity of Plate, and other Things of great Value; in this Case, there was a Doubt if it were a Burglary, or only a single Felony; upon which, he was carried over to the common Side, and his Affair postpon'd to some further Judgment. Sarah Lowther , alias Rockett , pleaded her Belly, and was found quick with Child.

THE remaining two, viz. Thomas Wyton , and Henry Cole , were ordered for Execution.

HENRY COLE , was indicted, for that he being convicted at Kingston upon Thames , in the County of Surry , on the 21st Day of March, 1738, for stealing 11 Holland Shirts, value 5 l. and 10 Table cloths, value 3 l. the Property of Christian Scot , January 4, 1738, for which he was transported; was afterwards, to wit. on the 30th Day of April, 1744, seen at large in Great-Britain , without lawful Cause, before the Expiration of the Term, for which he was ordered to be transported.

HENRY COLE , 44 Years of Age the 12th of November last, was born of reputable Parents, in St. Dunstan's in the West, who gave him a very good Education; he was between two and three Years at Hertford , where he was kept like a Gentleman's Son; his Mother dying, his Father married a Woman who had two Children, and his Father having two Children, they did not agree very well; and he being of an unlucky and a roving Disposition, would not be bound Apprentice to any Trade, but had a Mind to go to Sea, where he went as Captain's Servant , with my Lord Forbes, in the Grafton Man of War, where he staid about Half a Year; then there was an Order from the Lords of the Admiralty, that no Boys should go under such an Age; so he was discharged, and was bound Apprentice for seven Years to a very honest Man, in Maryland, with whom he lived six Years and four Months; then his Father sent for him over, to bring him up in his own Business of a Sheriff's Officer , in which, (as he says) if he had been diligent, he might have kept a Chaise and Horse as well as his Father: then he got acquainted with bad Women: The first Person who was the Occasion of bringing him into their Company, was one Joseph Brown , a Shoemaker , who to support this, used to persuade him to rob his Father, which he did frequently, when he was gone to his Country-House at Hampstead .

THEN he unfortunately became acquainted with one E – C -, a Mantua-maker; they went to the Hand and Pen in Fleet-Lane, and were married, who he charged (tho' falsely) with keeping Company with other Men, particularly one N - l, who was Clerk to one Mr. Seymour, a Banker, in Fleet-street: He lived with her so long, that he had learned a little of the Wickedness of the Town, that he could live without her; his Father finding him take those Courses, would not see him. What he says relating to his above Wife, is entirely false, she being a very modest, sober, good Woman.

HE then became acquainted with Jack Dyer , and - Dumbleton *. Cole said, N - l arrested him for 12 l. which he pretended Cole's Wife had borrowed of him, and out of the 40 l. which he received, as his Part of the Reward, upon the Conviction of Dyer and Dumbleton, he paid N - l six Pounds, and likewise paid for the Burial of Dyer; he said, his Wife frequented several Hops, (which were very much in vogue at that Time) and there kept Company with N - l, and several other loose Persons, which was the Occasion of his leaving her.

SOME time after that, he got acquainted with one Margaret Dyer , with whom he lived as his Wife, and continued a Wicked Course of Life for several Years, committing a great many Burglaries, Robberies and Felonies; and on the 21st of March, was four Years, he and this pretended Wife, were convicted for robbing

* Cole was Evidence against Dyer and Dumbleton, who were Executed Nov. 22, 1729.

The last Person Dyer was Evidence against, and who was afterwards executed, was Humphry Angier , for robbing Mr. Lewin, the under City Marshall, in Hornsey-lane , which Prosecution, (as Cole says) was carried on at the Instigation of Jonathan Wild , and he verily believes Angier was not guilty of the Fact, and in Truth, that Lewin was never robbed.

Christian Scot , a Washerwoman in Bennet-Street, in Southwark , of the Things mentioned in the Indictment, and were transported together.

ACCORDING to their Sentence, they were transported and carried to Potomack River in Virginia , and he and his Wife were sold to one Thomas Lewis , but his Wife died in about Ten Days after she was sold: He continued there about 8 Months, 5 of which he was sick of a Fever and Ague, and on the 8th of April following he got out of Bed from an old Man who he lay with, and went into the Milk House to take what Provisions he could find along with him for his Support in his Journey; there was no Bread, but he took what Meat there was, which was only a small Quantity of Bacon, which stank, for they had just before shot a Hog in the Woods, which was over-heated, and it would not take Salt. He put what Provisions he had into a coarse Osnaburgh Shirt, which he took with him for that Purpose, and took some of his Wife's Caps to make Tinder of, and two check'd Aprons to make him a Shirt. He lay by all that Day to prevent his being discover'd, and broil'd some of his Bacon, which he eat very heartily. As soon as the Day Light was shut in, he went down towards the Mouth of the River, and travelled all that Night, but could not make much Way. The next Day he lay by again, and the Night following travelled all Night long, and came to a River called Ockaquan, where there is a Ferry, but the Ferry-House was on the other Side of the River. He lay about ten Days on that Side of the River, concealed among the Bushes, which was not above ten Miles from his Master's House, during which Time he wandered about to find a Canoe to carry him over the River, in order to proceed on his Journey; and at a Smith's Shop (it being Moon-light) he happened to see an Advertisement stuck up for taking him, still he wandered up and down the River, having little or no Provisions left, and walked against the Wind to come to a Plantation, in order to get some Provisions, and got to the Milk-House adjoining to the Dwelling House, where he found a Blade Bone of Bacon, some Greens, and a Pone of English Bread made of Wheat, but it was as heavy as Lead: He filled a Cloth full of English Meal, took a Fowl out of the Hen House, and went down into a Pokosen, which is a thick Woody Place, and a wet swampy Ground near the Water Side; there he made a Fire under a Beach Tree, and eat Part of his Bacon and Bread, pick'd his Fowl and dressed it, and made his Flower into Bread and baked it, then he wandered up and down, till at last one Afternoon he saw a Man coming on Shore in a Canoe, who had been selling his Ware, and fastened the Canoe to the Stump of a Tree, and took the Paddle * away with him. He followed the Man through the Woods, till he saw he was clear off. This made the Tenth Day that he was on that Side the River, and he did design (if he had not had this Opportunity of escaping) to return to his Master, and ask his Pardon, and tell him he had attempted to make his Escape, but finding he could not do it, was resolved to continue his Servant. But this was only a Pretence, for he thought to have gone to North Carolina the latter Part of the Season.

THE Man who left the Canoe being quite gone, he made a Paddle out of a board, as well as he could, went into the Canoe round a Sort of a Bay, and thought he had been on the desired Side of the River; but in the Morning, to his great Disappointment, found himself on the same Side still. The next Day, being a dull hazy Day, and no Plantation near the River, he ventured over in the Day Time, and, as it happened, undiscovered. When he came on the other Side, at a small Distance he saw some Negroes planting Tobacco, and was obliged to lie in a Parcel of prickly Thorns till Night, he not daring to stir they were so near him; then he set out again, and went to the Plantation and killed a Goose, which lasted him four Days; he still continuing to travail in the Night, and lay by in the Day, and as he went along, used to rob the Milk Houses and the Plantations.

ONE Night, in his Way to Rapabannock River , he wat looking at one of the Country Posts which was set up with a Direction cut upon it, and a Woman came out in her Smock (as he believes) to make Water, says she to her Husband, or something like that, here's a Runaway. Cole took no Notice of her, but after he had walked a little Way, the Woman came out again, and said, Hah! you must come back. He made a

* A Paddle is what they row the Coast with, and is like a Baker's Peal, only the Handle is not quite so long.

Feint as if he was going back again; when she saw that, being in her Smock, run into the House a second Time; upon that he turned back, and said, Who are you making your Fool of? and went forward. The Woman seeing him go forward, said to her Husband, He is not coming back, he is going forward. Then the Man, who was a petty Planter, slipped on his Breeches, put his Gun upon his Shoulder, and came after him; when he came up to him he said, Who do you belong to? Cole answered, I belong to myself. The Planter said, Where are you going? Cole said, To the Eastern Shore. What are you going to do there? said he. Says Cole, I have a Relation that lives in Kent County, and I am going to him; he is a Freeman and a Carpenter, and has sent for me to come and live with him; and, as my Wife is dead, I design to live there. The Planter then asked him his Name. He said, he was not afraid of telling his Name; his Name was John Perkins ; that he served his Time with one John Boyd , in the North Branch of Puttuxent River in Maryland , and had lived 25 Years in the Country, (for there was one John Perkins who had served his Time with Boyd, when Cole was in the Country first; but Cole was not transported then, and, as he says, was never transported but once.) The Planter said, he had mentioned a Place far enough off that he (the Planter) knew nothing of, and that he must give some better Account of himself, or he would take him back again. But Cole said, he would not have minded that, if he had got hold of the Gun. The Planter said, he looked like a Runaway by his going in the Night; that as he was a Constable, it was his Business to look after Runaways; that he had been robbed of all his Linnen but a little before. Cole gave him a particular Account of that Part of the Country and told him he had lived with one Ralph Crab 7 Years. The Planter said, he would not trouble himself with him, but he was sure he would be brought back again, and so they parted. He travelled on, plundering the Milk Houses, till he came within 4 Miles of Rappahanock River. The Night being rainy, and he very wet, he got into an old Tobacco House, [he was afraid of catching an Ague and Fever, but, he said, he believed he was reserved for this Death, otherwise he does suppose he should have died there] and fell asleep between some old Cyder Casks: While he was asleep, he dreamed there was a Man came in a Great Coat with a Gun to take him, and told him he was a Runaway; and just as he awaked he saw a Man * like the other he had been dreaming of, come into the Tobacco Warehouse, with a Gun upon his Arm, and said, Hah, what do you do here? Cole said, What do you think? I was asleep if you had not wak'd me. The Man said he must get up, and come along with him. For what? said Cole; what must I go along with you for? The Man said, because he believed he was a Runaway. Cole said he was no Runaway. The Man said he looked as if he was, for he might have had Quarters at his House if he had been upon the fair Lay, [for every one may travel the Country through, without costing him a Farthing, if he has a Protection] and therefore as it was War Time, he said, he thought proper to take him before a Justice. [This was about the Time of taking Porto Bello.] There were three Negroes accidentally coming by, the Planter called to them to come up; they asked him, what was the Matter? Bryan, said he, had caught a Runaway in his Tobacco House, and they persuaded him to let him go; they said, Poor Barricado, let him go, what signifies keeping him? Bryan said, if they would not assist him to carry him before Mr. Beane, (a Justice of the Peace) he would have them flogg'd. Then Cole consented to go along with them. When they came there, Bryan told Mr. Beane, that his Boy went into the Tobacco House for a Bit of Tobacco, and seeing a Man lying asleep, was frightened out of his Wits, and came and acquainted him with it; upon which he took his Gun and secured him, and had brought him before him, to advise with him what to do. What I would have you do, said Mr. Beane, why you may see he is a Runaway. Mr. Beane said he would send him down to Naylor's-Hole, to Captain Fantleroy. Said Cole, What must I do there? Said

* One Bryan, a Planter in Virginia, an Irish Fellow, who had married an old Negroe Woman.

† A White Man.

the Justice, He will send you to Goal, and you shall be kept there till your Master comes to own you. Then said Cole, He may keep me there a thousand Years, for I have no Master in the World. Justice Beane said, he did not know whether he had or not, but he would keep him five Court Days, and if he was not owned then, the Sheriff should order him to be sold for four Years as a Runaway.

COLE said, this was a hard Case, for he had a Wife and Children in the Country; but he could not say, but that he was a Run-away from one Thing, for he had run a way from a Doctor's Bill, for killing his Wife and two Children, [if a Man cannot pay his Debts, they will sell him for a Slave till those Debts are paid] Then the Justice said, let him go about his Business; then Cole went to Bryan's House, and he advised him to go into the Army (for they were then raising Soldiers to go to the Island of Cuba) and that he would give him a Direction to go to a Gentleman in Richmond County ; this Cole accepted of, thinking it might be a Protection, though he had no Intention of going into the Army; on the other Hand, Bryan told him, if he had a Mind to go to England, there was one Captain Loney *, of the Frederick Pink , that lay at Brays-Church, in the Rappahanock River, and that Captain Loney would give 10 l. for the Run Home, to any Body that was a good Sailor. Cole told him, he heard there were pressing Times in England, and that he would rather go into the Land-Service. Bryan said, God bless you, do just as you will, and so they parted. Cole went on his Journey, and before he was well got out of Sight of Bryan's House, he met a Land Captain, who was raising Recruits: Said Cole, I suppose he was one who had killed a Rattle-Snake, and they had made him a Captain for so doing; then Cole returned again, and made the best of his Way to Naylor's-Hole, where there was a Ship lying; he went on Board her, and asked if they wanted a Jobber; they told him they did not want any, but directed him to Captain Loney, who asked him several Questions, because he had heard of an Advertisement, of such a Person running away from his Master; but he told him, he came from Mr. Boyd, in Puttuxent-River; then the Captain told him, he would give him six Pounds for the run Home; upon which, he hired himself to him; when he came to England, he was press'd out of Captain Loney's † Ship, into the Scarborough Man of War, Captain Wm. Lisle, Commander, where he remained till he had an Opportunity to be sent up in a press'd Man's Room; and he was soon after, sent up in a New England Man; then he went to the Regulating Captain in Mark-Lane, and got a Ticket with an Order to go to the Clerk of the Cheque at Deptford, to receive fifteen Shillings Conduct-Money, in order to carry him down to the Scarborough, at Plymouth, or elsewhere; and then went on Board Captain Loney's Ship to receive his Wages, which were paid to him; and instead of going to his Majesty's Ship the Scarborough, he run away from the Service, (this was in September 1740) and then he fell into Company with some of his old Companions, and fell again into his former wicked Course of Life.

THE following contains a particular Account of the most remarkable Burglaries which he committed since his returning from Transportation, and are placed in order, according to the Time they were committed, as near as his Memory would permit. He seemed desirous, that the Buyers of stolen Goods should be detected, and punished: for if there were no Receivers, there would be very few Thieves, for then they would not know what to do with the Goods they got; and said, he hated the Practice now as much as ever he lov'd it.

IN those Burglaries, where it is not mentioned who the Goods were sold to, were sold to Bess Cane , a notorious Fence or Lock ‡, who lives in Cross-Lane ; others he sold to Ann Collier , in Black-boy Alley , Chick Lane .

IN last May was twelve Months, he met with Jack Exelby , who was capitally convicted, and afterwards reprieved for Transportation for 14 Years: Cole returned before him, they were * He insisted upon his Trial, that he was sold to Captain Loney, of the Frederick Pink .

† It will be four Years, come the 12th of August, since he was pressed out of Captain Loney's Ship.

‡ A Fence, or a Lock, is a Buyer and Receiver of stolen Goods. Cole says, Bess Cane removed out of Cross-Lane, upon, his Account, but since he has been convicted, she is returned there again.

very glad to see one another, as having been in the New Goal together, for (he said) People in our Way, are as glad to see an old Acquaintance, as any Gentlemen are.

THE first Expedition he and Jack Exelby , went upon, was to my Lord Cobham's House, with an Intent to rob it (for Jack Exelby had lived as a Sereant with my Lord) they walked up and down a great while; but People passing backwards and forwards, they had no Opportunity that Night, so they never attempted it afterwards. That Night, they two broke open a Stocking-Shop in Chisswell-Street, about half an Hour after 12 o'Clock, by breaking the Glass over the Shutters, which were not close at Top, and took out a great Quantity of Stockings, which the Shop-keeper valued at 14 l. and sold them to Ann Collier for under 3 l. they brought them away in a Bag, for they always took Bags with them, made of two Ells of brown Linnen, for this Purpose.

HE, Tom Harford , and one more of his Companions, broke open a Linnen draper's Shop, the Corner of Dean-Street, Soho, and took a great Quantity of Linnens and Cottons, which they sold to Bess Cane for 12 d. a Yard, which he believes were worth 4 s. or 4 s. 6 d. a Yard.

THE next was a Linnen-Draper's Shop in King-street, Covent-Garden, where they took a great Quantity of printed Linnens and Chints, which they sold to Bess Cane for a meer Trifle.

HE and two of his Companions broke open a Stocking Shop in a new Street by St. Martin's-Lane. They got in by cutting a Hole in the Window Shutter, and putting a Stick in with a Hook to it, and so dragged the Goods out.

HE and one Companion broke open a Linnen-Draper's, in Half-Moon street in the Strand, which they did by taking a Shutter down; and took a great Quantity of Linnens and Handkerchiefs, which they sold to Bess Cane .

HE and one Companion broke open a Linnen-Draper's Shop the Corner of Southampton street in the Strand, between 12 and 1 on a Sunday Morning, by taking down a Shutter; and took out a large Quantity of plain Holland, a Pound of Tea, and some Threads in blue Papers, which they took out of a Desk in the Window, and burnt the Papers to prevent Discovery. He said the Shutters were worn at the Bottom, that they could easily raise them up, or push them on one Side, and wondered that People should be so negligent and dilatory in not getting their Shutters mended, and keeping the Grooves better secured at the Ends.

ANOTHER Thing he blames Shopkeepers for, especially Linnen-Drapers, is for letting large Quantities of valuable Goods lie close to the Window Shutters, so that they may be taken out with their Hands: This must be owing to the Negligence of Masters or Servants, or for Fear of a little Trouble in moving their Goods at Night.

HE and Jack Exelby broke open a Linnen-Draper's Shop over-against the Fountain Tavern in the Strand, and took a great Quantity of check'd Linnen and Handkerchiefs, and Sir Thomas Deveil sent the Watchman that stood there to Bridewell, for Neglect of Duty, but the Watchman who supply'd his Place was more didiligent, or else they had broke open the Stocking Shop close to the Fountain Tavern. All these Goods were disposed of to Bess Cane , who afterwards sold some of them to one Anne Clayton *.

THE next was a Linnen-Draper's in Long-Acre: There they cut a Hole in the Shutter, and took out a large Parcel of Lawns and Cambricks. They lay so handy for them, that they put them into their Bags, and moved them off directly.

THEY broke open another Linnen Draper's Shop at the End of Compton-Street , by old Soho , which the robb'd by cutting a Hole in the Shutter, and drawing the Things out. Those Goods were sold to Bess Cane .

* Anne Clayton was cast for Transportation in February Sessions, (but was not sent abroad.) Cole says she is a Second Hand Receiver, and is employed by Bess Cane and Anne Collier to sell Goods for them, and was employed by Bess Collier to pawn a Corral, which was stopped by one Keys, a Pawnbroker in Chick-Lane , for which she was tried; but bringing two Women, who swore they saw a Man offer to sell it to her in the Street, she was acquitted. Cole said, that Anne Clayton was convicted last February Sessions, on Account of some stolen China Ware, which she had received from Bess Cane to sell.

HE was concerned in breaking open a Stuff Shop (he thinks) in Queen-street by Golden square, between Saturday Night and Sunday Morning, and took a large Quantity of Stuffs. There were to that Shop two Bars, with Hooks at the End of them, that fix into another Iron. They straitned they Ends of the Hooks with an Instrument made of harden'd Mettal, [some of those Instruments are 3 Foot long, and others 11 or 12 Inches long and an Inch broad, to carry in their Pockets] and with these they could take the Bars off, and take the Shutters down. They took such a large Quantity of Stuffs from thence, that they could not carry them Home, but hid them in a Dunghill in Silver-street , just by Carnaby Market , and on Sunday Night Cole, and Bess Cane , and some other Women, fetched them away in a Basket.

HE and Jack Exelby broke open a Linnen Draper's Shop near the Windmill in Silver-Street, about 12 o'Clock at Night, and took a great Quantity of Printed Linnens, Scotch and other Handkerchiefs, by pushing back the Shutters and breaking the Glass. This was owing to the Groove not being rightly fixed, for they drew away a Piece of Wood which was fixed at the End of the Groove.

THEY commonly take a View of the Place in the Day Time, that they intend to rob at Night. Sometimes a Boy will hollow out to them from under the Counter; but that does not make them withdraw, unless they have got a great deal to do, or unless any body gets up, and then sometimes to prevent the Door being opened, they tie a Rope to the Knocker, and fasten it to a Post, or any Thing they can fix it to; and sometimes he has had Things drawn out of his Hands, as he has been trying to get them out of the Window.

THE next Shop they broke open, was a Slop-Shop, a little below Turn Stile, in Holborn , and took the Shutters down, although there was a Watchman over-against the Door, who lay with his Elbow upon the Bulk, smoaking his Pipe (he could not say the Watchman saw them at Work) they saw him all the Time they were doing this; and as they were returning for more Things, after they had carried some Home, the People had discovered it, and were endeavouring to put up the Shutters, so they were prevented from doing any Thing farther; Cole went to the Watchman, pulled hold of his Coat, and said, What are you asleep, there's a House broke open over the Way, then the Watchman rose up out of his Sleep, but whether he went over the Way, he could not tell, for Cole went forward; but he observed, that in a Day or two afterwards the People were run away; they sold these Goods to Bess Cane for five Guineas.

HE and Jack Exelby broke open a Silver-Smith's Shop in Barbican , and took several Corrals and Snuff Boxes, a half Pint Mug, a Silver Waiter, some Coat Buttons, and other Things.

HE and two more of his Companions broke open a Silver Smith's Shop near Red-Lion-Square, and took several Things of Value, which they sold to Bess Cane . She bought them at a very low Rate, for she always kept Liquor by her, that they were commonly drunk when they sold them, and hardly knew what they did.

THEY broke open a Stocking Shop in Brick-Lane in Spittlefields , by drawing the Shutter back, and took out a great Quantity of Stockings, which were rough as they came out of the Lomb. These they carried to Bess Cane's at two different Times.

THEY attempted to break open a Linnen-Draper's Shop in the Borough ; but the People called out and disturb'd them, before they could complete their Work.

HE and his Companions broke open a Linnen Draper's Shop facing Five-foot Lane , by taking down a Shutter, and took out a great Quantity of Goods out of the Window with their Hands, they lay so near them, and sold them to Bess Cane ; he said they were more plagued with these Things, than ever they were with any in their Lives; for they went to a Womans House, who keeps a * Case at Rotherhith just by the Waterside, and when they came out of her House, they mistook their Way, and went to Deptford instead of coming to London.

THEY broke open a Linnen Draper's and Stocking Shop against Dock-Head, and took a Quantity of Linnen and embossed Petticoats.

HE and Exelby broke open a Linnen Draper's Shop at the Golden Key near Princes Stairs in Rotherhith , and took a Parcel of Tureey Cottons, Manchester Cottons and Handkerchiefs.

* A common Brothell, or Bawdy House.

A little before he was taken up, he and Exelby broke open a Linnen Draper's Shop on Tower Hill the Corner of George Yard , the Side next the Yard, and took out a Parcel of Nuns Hollands, and if the Man had not called out they should have taken a great Quantity of Goods. This was done notwithstanding there was a Watchhouse directly over against it (as he believe) not above six Yards from the Shop.

N. B. HE had a Shirt on three Days before his Execution, which he said was made of some of that Linnen, for he had not bought any for some Years.

THE following is the Account he gave of his being taken up, which was only for a Quarrel when he was drunk, for he had never been in Custody before, since he returned from Transportation, therefore he said, I see Drunkenness has hanged me.

JACK Exelby and his Wife, and Henry Cole had been drinking some hot pot together at the White Swan in King-Street in Wapping , as they were coming Home, they saw two Coal heavers (one of whose Names is Collins) who said they were Watchmen. Cole said, who the Devil made you Watchmen without Lanthorns and Staves; upon which one of them came over the Way and fell upon Jack Exelby 's Wife, and she had like to have been murdered, upon which Jack Exelby fell upon one of the Coal-heavers, and a Fray ensued, then Henry Cole came to the Assistance of Mr. Exelby, and having a Brace of Pistols in his Pocket pulled out one of them, and swore he would shoot him, and (he said) he could have done it if he had had a Mind; upon this a Mob arose, he was secured and carried to the Watch house that Night, and the next day before Justice Jones, and by him committed to New Prison; he said when he was carried before Justice Jones, he could have had Bail, but the Coal heavers insisted upon two Guineas, but he had not so much Money about him, but if he had got off of this, he would have gone to Sea, for he said as to Jack Exelby , God bless him let him go where he will, I am resolved to go to Sea; he said he would have gone in another Name for he could have borrow'd any Bodies Name. He had then 48 s. in Bess Cane's Hands, which was paid to Exelby's Wife.

COLE had bought a pair of Silver knee Buckles at Mr. Young's in Bloomsbury* Young and some Thieftakers having a Suspicion of him came to search after some of his Goods, and happening to see Cole and some of his Companions at at Alehouse in Leather Lane, and Young said they were the two Men and he would swear to them, but he got away, if he had not, he believes he should have been hanged for that Fact if he had been taken up, though he was not concerned in it, (he then lived in Purple Lane ) and about half an Hour after he was gone they came and searched the House, and Tom Foot one of the Thief-takers got up the Chimney, and was as black as a Chimney sweeper (for he said he had sometimes hid Things in the Chimney).

HE said Tom Dickson was very much addicted to Thieving, and could no more help it, than he (Cole) could help running against a Linnen Draper's Shop Window in the Night Time.

HE had several Artifices to deceive the Watchmen, and draw them of their Duty, which he and his Companions frequently practiced; if a Watchman stood too near a Place that they had any Design upon, he would sham drunk, fall down and pretend to be very much in Liquor, and if the Watchman came to lift him up, (as they commonly do) he would say let me alone, the Watchman would perhaps say, come get up you must not lie here; he took care to have some Halfpence in his Hand, which he would drop down so as to make a Noise, the Watchman then he would say Master you have dropt something, and if he had any Silver he would pull it out and say he had lost some, the Watchman says there are some Halfpence picked up, then he calls the Watchman, he wishes he could get to some House to wash himself, the Watchman carries him to a public House, and in the mean Time his Companions are at their Work, then he gives the Watchman six Pence, and the Watchman says God bless you I wish you well Home or a good Night, and then there is a Halliballow, about his Stand.

THE Watch Word is sometimes Hey up, or Hip Jones, which is a very common Word with them Sometimes he shall meet with an honest Watchman, that when the Clock strikes will go his Rounds, and then he endeavours to keep close up to that Side of the Watchman which is next to the Place where he or his Companions have been cutting, that the Watchman should not perceive it. He said there are some Watchmen in the City of London as great Rogues as any * His House was broke open by Samuel Moses , Michael Jude , and Solomon Athorn , who were convicted last December Sessions.

living, and that there is hardly a Watchman, let him be never so honest or sober, but what he could get off his Stand: And considering the many decrepid Watchmen, and those that will get into Ginshops, 'tis no difficult Matter to accomplish their Designs: And he declared, as he was so near his End, it was no Advantage to him to tell a Lie, and therefore he would speak nothing but the Truth.

THOMAS Wyton , of St. Clement Danes , was indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling House of George Stringer , about the Hour of 4 in the Night, and taking a Mettal Watch, value 3 l. six Silver Clasps for Stocks, value 20 s. five Yards of Dimithy, value 5 s. one Ring set with Stones, value 1 s. an Iron Key, value 2 d. and 15 l. in Money, the Property of George Stringer ; a Silver Watch, value 3 l. the Property of Thomas Jones ; a Silver Watch, value 3 l. two silver Seals, value 3 s. a Gold Seal, value 12 s. a Gold Ring, value 12 s. and a Pair of silver Buckles, value 10 s. the Property of Charles Day , Jan. 11.

UPON this Indictment Thomas Wyton was capitally convicted, and on Report made to his Majesty of the Malefactors under Condemnation, he and Cole were the only two ordered for Execution; but on the Morning appointed for their Suffering, he was found dead in his Cell, having hang'd himself with an old Handkerchief which he had platted together, and fastened to a Nail that he had fix'd up for that Purpose.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Day before Cole died, he received the blessed Sacrament of our Lord's Last Supper very devoutly. The Morning he suffered he went up to Chapel about 7 o'Clock, and was very serious in Prayer and Singing of Psalms. After the Service was ended, he was carried to Tyburn in a Cart by himself, where he behaved with much Seriousness and Devotion, and read a Paper to the Spectators, a Copy of which here follows, viz.

The following Speech Henry Cole read at the Place of Execution, immediately after Divine Service, with great Freedom and Composure of Mind.

GENTLEMEN!

" I CANNOT doubt, but among You, there " are a great many that knows me, and knows " that I came of honest Parents. Undutifulness " to them has brought me to this untimely End. " Drunkenness and lewd Women, debauch'd " Campany and Sabbath-breaking, were the " Forerunners of a Life of unparallell'd Wickness for many Years, with Shame I may speak " it. I cannot doubt but what there are a great " many here, now in Sight of me, that are still " pursuing the same Ways, and if not timely " prevented, will shortly be over-taken by the " Hand of Justice; though I hope in God, that " this my fatal End, will be a Warning to them " all. I hope, that I have made my Peace " with God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ, " in whom I trust. I humbly beg Pardon of all " People I have wrong'd in any Case whatever, " even those who have prosecuted me to my " Death. I freely forgive all Mankind, as I " hope to be forgiven, and die in Peace and " Charity with all the World, and an unworthy " Member of the Church of England. I beg " the Prayers of all good Christian People for " my poor Soul, that is just going to launch into " Eternity, and beg that none will reflect upon " my Wife nor Friends, who were no ways " concerned in the means of my Ruin. I own " my Sentence to be very Just.

AFTER he had finish'd his Speech, the Cap was pulled over his Eyes, and he was turned off, crying, Lord Jesus, receive my Spirit!

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

AS the Persons to whom these Papers relate were repriev'd, we think it requisite to give some Account of the Publication of their Contents. They were taken with all the Caution imaginable, in respect to the Truths they contain, and are sent abroad purely out of regard to Public Good. The Execution of Offenders would be of little Service to the Society, consider'd barely as removing so many Malefactors, the Benefit expected from it arises from the Example, or rather the Effects of the Example; this the Law seeks, and this is principally sought by the rendering these Papers public; and this surely must be therefore esteemed a Reason sufficient.

IT will manifestly appear from this Account, that a good Education, and the greatest Tenderness and Care of Parents, have very little Share in restraining young People of a vicious Disposition, and therefore this ought to incline such as have the Direction of Youths, who discover a Propensity to bad Courses, to lay aside an illtim'd Affection, which serves only to thtow them in the Way of Temptation, and to apply an effectual Remedy, by either putting them to a laborious Business with a proper Master, or sending them out of the Road of ill Company, 'till they arrive at Discretion enough to avoid it themselves.

BESIDES this, the Magistrate, from these Accounts, may be led to observe, that the Wickedness, which is so much complain'd of, arises in a Manner wholly from the Tolleration, some Way or other, of infamous Houses, in which young People are corrupted, plung'd into Debaucheries, and then turn'd out to rob, thieve, or pick Pockets, in order to support them. These Houses are the Sources of the Fullness of Goals, and the Frequency of Executions, and therefore to remove them, would be found the most certain Means to prevent those, towards which it is hoped the Publication of these Papers, and the remarkable Facts contained in them, may, in some Measure, contribute.

A Particular Account relating to ROBERT ROCHEAD , and his Companions.

ROBERT ROCHEAD , commonly called Sir Robert, was born in the City of Edinburgh , aged 28 Years, of reputable Parents, whose Father, as we are informed, was Provost of Edinburgh about Nine Years ago, and hath been dead about two Years. When he was of an Age proper to be sent to School, his Parents put him to one of the best in Edinburgh, where he made a very great Progress in his Learning, so that he was Master of the Latin and Greek Tongues. After he had left this School, and his Father thought him fit for some Trade, he gave him an Offer to make Choice of what Business best suited with his Inclinations. He being of a roving Disposition, was not willing to settle to any Manner of Trade; and accordingly he acquainted his Father, that his Humour led him to go to Sea. Upon which his Father not being willing to put him to any thing against his Will, for Fear of the ill Consequences that might attend it, he being of an obstinate Temper, bound him Apprentice to a Captain of a Ship in the Coal Trade, to which he served his Time, and that to the entire Satisfaction of his Master; his Behaviour being so just and agreeable, that the two last Years of his Time, his Master made him Mate of the same Ship .

ABOUT four Months after his Time was expired, the Ship that he was Mate of, was cast away near Yarmouth , but the Crew were saved by the Assistance of the Boat.

AFTER he arrived safe at Yarmouth , he shipped himself safe of a Brig that used the Holland Trade, in which Service he continued two Years, and might have continued in her longer; but being (as was observ'd before) of a roving Disposition, he came to London , where he had not

staid long, before his Money being all exhausted in a riotous Way of Living, he shipped himself on board the Anne Galley bound to Virginia . After his Arrival in James River , in Virginia , he and the Captain fell out; upon which Mr. Rochead challeng'd the Captain to go on Shore, and he would fight him at Sword and Pistol; to which the Captain reply'd, He would, To-morrow Morning, fight him at his own Weapons, viz. Put him in a Goal. Ugon that he got two Persons to join Company with him, and between Eleven and Twelve o'Clock at Night, they ran away with the Long Boat, and went to one of the Branches of James River , and pretended they were cast away on the Coast; by which Means they got Shelter in one of the Planter's Houses for about three Weeks.

AFTERWARDS a small Sloop came from Bermudas, that had a Mate and one Hand wash'd over-board, consign'd to the Planter where Rochead and his Companions were. While Rochead remained in the Planter's House, he behaved himself so well, that the Planter recommended it to the Master of the Sloop to take Rochead, and make him his Mate; upon which, on the Character given by the said Planter, he made him his Mate, and likewise took his two Companions into his Service. The Sloop being loaded with Tobacco, the fell down the River, and came to an Anchor, where the Captain and one Man, with a Boy, went on Shore to buy fresh Provisions for the Voyage to the West-Indies. In the mean Time Rochead, with the rest of the Ship's Company, got drunk, and while in that Condition, they consulted to run away with the Sloop, and accordingly cut the Cable, and taking the Advantage of a Moonlight Night, put to Sea, and steer'd their Course for the West-Indies, he being allow'd, by all that know him, to be a very good Sailor, and so accomplished an Artist, as to be capable of conducting a Ship to any Part of the World. The first Land they fell in with after seven Weeks Passage, was the Island of Qualifa-Quaw *, where, in Sight of the Land, they appointed him Master of the Sloop, and he at the same Time made one of his Companions, who had made his Escape with him on board the Anne Galley, Mate. Putting into the Harbour, he went on Shore, and got acquainted with a Merchant, who came to see his Cargoe, he at the same Time, declared to the Merchant, that the Ship and Cargoe were his own, and likewise took upon him the Name of Captain Ellis, which was the Name of the Master they had left behind at Virginia .

THERE being three Negroes on board the said Sloop, Rochead promised them their Liberty, if they would not betray him, but he not keeping his Word, but selling them to a Jew, after he had sold them, one of the Negroes discover'd the whole Affair. Upon this he was taken up with three other Men, and committed to Goal, and his new Mate turn'd Evidence against him. Rochead continued in Goal, till they received News from Virginia, in order to confirm the Mates's Evidence, which was near Thirteen Months; and the first News they received was, that Captain Edward Ellis dy'd with Grief for the Loss he had sustained by his running away with his Sloop and Cargoe. The Man and the Boy which went on Shore with Captain Ellis, took the first Opportunity of a Ship bound for England, and no Prosecutor appearing to confirm the Mate's Evidence, they were all discharged.

UPON this Rochead went Passenger in a New-England Schooner to Jamaica , where he shipp'd himself Second Mate of a Snow, to go down the Coast and Bay of Honduras Buchaneering; where, in about six Months Time, they met with very good Success, and the Officers expected to make themselves by the Voyage; but in about 28 Leagues S. W. from the West End of Jamaica , they sprung a Leak, and must infalliably have perished, had it not been for the Assistance of a Turteling Sloop, who took all their Men on board (who were in Number, Officers included, Fifty-five) and carried them to Port-Royal in Jamaica .

* Taken from a Quaquaw Negroe.

SOME small Time after, being on Shore, he had an Opportunity of shipping himself for London as Boatswain, and had Twenty five Guineas for the Run Home. Upon his coming to Town, and with that Money, he equipp'd himself after a very handsome Manner; and one Day being in Company with a young Woman, he fell in Love with her, and made his Addresses to her, and after a few Months Courtship gained her Consent, and was married to her, and she proved a virtuous Woman, by whom he had one Child.

HIS Money being all spent, he then shipp'd himself Mate of a Collier, where he continued several Voyages, and his Behaviour was very well approved off by the Owners; but there being an Order from the Admiralty, that no Person belonging to any Ship coming on Shore without their Protection, should be exempt from being press'd; and as he was found on Shore without his Protection, he was accordingly Impress'd, and carried on Board his Majesty's Ship The Cumberland, under the Command of Commodore James Stuart, as a Foremast Man; but having some Friends, through the Interest of his late Father, he was made Midshipman. The Ship falling down to the Nore, there were three 80 Gun Ships to be mann'd, viz. The Torbay, Cambridge, and Chichester, which lay at Sheerness; on which Rochead was turn'd over on Board The Cambridge, under the Captain Thomas Wharwood, who being compleatly mann'd, he immediately ail'd to Spithead.

SOMETIME after, there being an Order for a secret Expedition, under the Command of Sir John Norris , the Fleet sailed to the Westward, with the Cambridge in Company, and meeting with some Gales of Wind to the Westward, the Fleet return'd to Spithead: Then sometime after their Arrival, Captain Wharwood was by order of the Lords of the Admiralty, made Captain of the Neptune, a Ship of 90 Guns; and upon Rochead's late good Behaviour, in the Cambridge, the Captain made him Master's Mate of the above Ship.

SOME short Time after, Lieutenant Harrison and Rochead, were order'd to keep a Rendezvous at London, to impress, and enter Men for his Majesty's Service, which was kept at the Golden-Lion near Wapping Stairs; the Man who keeps the House is one Henry Ingester, where he continued for about six Months. After he had continued there some Time, an Order came down from the Regulating Captain, to break up the Rendezvous, which was accordingly done. The Lieutenant order'd the Gang to go on Board a Tender, which was ordered for Scotland, to impress Men; the Tender lying near Wapping-Stairs, the Crew consisted of sixteen Hands on Board, the chief Command of which, was given to Rochead, by order of the Lieutenant; Rochead at that Time, being short of Money, discharg'd the Impress'd Men, on a valuable Consideration, which Practice he follow'd for about three Weeks, 'l the Orders for Victualling and Manning the Tender for a sufficient Compliment of Men, came down by Lieutenant Scroop; accordingly they repair'd to the Neptune, which was victualled at Chatham.

FROM whence they proceeded for a three Months Cruize, to enter and impress Men both by Land and Sea; and arriving at Leith, Rochead had once more the Opportunity of seeing his Father and Mother, and likewise his Brother, who is now a Distiller in Edinburgh; when his Father saw him, he received him with a great deal of Tenderness, as likewise did his Mother and Brother; before he took Leave of his Father, he furnished him with Cloaths, Books, &c. to the Value of forty Pounds, or upwards. The Cruize being near out, and meeting with pretty good Success, they return'd to the Neptune Man of War at Chatham; and he obtaining Leave from the Captain to come up to London, he got acquainted with some lewd Women of the Town; and he not being able to supply their Extravagancies, he took the following Method; which was, by procuring four or five People to impress Men on the River Thames in the Night-time, under false Pretensions, and thereby extort several Sums of Money from them; he at that Time pretended he was a Lieutenant, so by this villainous Way of proceeding, he got a pretty parcel of Money. The very last Night of his Expedition, a Captain of one of the Ships that he extorted Money from, happened to know him,

and upon Application to the Regulating Captains, he acquainted them who Rochead was; they applied to the Lords of the Admiralty, and thereupon Warrants were issued out for taking him; and one Lieutenant Nowel, having a proper Warrant for apprehending him, as he was going along Rotherith, met with him by Chance, and some of the Gang belonging to the Lieutenant, knowing him, he was immediatelyy taken, and put on Board the Tender, then lying at Tower Wharf.

THE next Day the Regulating Captains sitting, found Rochead to be the very Person, who made it his Business to impress Persons, under false Pretensions, and likewise to extort Sums of Money from them for their Discharge; upon which, they apply'd to the Lords of the Admiralty, to know how to Proceed against him; and their Lordships Commands were, to commit him to the Marshalsea, which was done accordingly, where he continued in Irons for above five Months. An Alteration being made in the Lords of the Admiralty, and Brigadier General Sinclair knowing his Father, made Interest for him to be sent on Board the Lark Man of War, under the Command of Captain Waring. Some small Time before his Commitment to the Marshalsea, he became acquainted with Sarah Lowther , now under Sentence of Death in Newgate, and who receiv'd Sentence at the same Time as he did, at the Old-Bailey in May Sessions last. While he laid in the Marshalsea, she supplied him with Money, by picking Gentlemen's Pockets, who she pick'd up in the Streets; especially those Gentlemen who she saw any ways disguised in Liquor, she seldom left them without taking either their Watches or Money; being allowed by her own Fraternity, to be a very good Hand, as they term it.

WHEN he was discharged from the Marshalsea, he went on Board the Lark; he had not been long on Board, before Orders came for her to repair to Spithead, to take in a Governor for Jamaica . About a Week after the Arrival of the Lark at Spithead, Sarah Lowther received a Letter from him to come down to the Ship, accordingly she went down, and there passed for his Wife; whilst she remain'd on Board, which was three Days, Rochead and the Ships Crew being informed that the Governor was at Portsmouth, and expected him on Board in two or three Days. While his pretended Wife was on Board, they both laid a Scheme for his Escape, which, by her procuring a Bomb Boat, was compleated about twelve o'Clock that Night, viz. One of the Lieutenants coming on Board that Night about Ten, with Orders from the Captain to get every Thing clear'd and ready for sailing, the Governor being to come on Board next Morning, and calling for the Mate of the Watch, it happening at that Time to be Rochead's Turn to have the first Watch, which was to be between the Hours of Eight and Twelve; upon which, he was ordered to get the Accommodation Ladder out, and see the Viol all clear, for heaving in the best Bower Cable. Then the Lieutenant, with some other of the Officers, went to sleep, leaving Rochead as Officer of the Watch, with two Midshipmen, and other Persons proper, viz. Four Quarter-Masters, and one Boatswain's Mate, beside four Centinels. Rochead expecting the Bomb-boat to come off every Moment, as was agreed between him and his Wife; for fear of being Discover'd, he made the petty Officers and the Watch drunk; in the mean Time, the Bombboat came hankering before the Bow; upon his seeing her, Rochead pretending to be in a violent Passion, cry'd out, D - n you, what are you doing here? On which, the Man answered, Andrew Fararo †. Upon which Answer, Rochead desired him to pull on Long side, and make fast to the Accommodation Ladder, and he would soon be with him; then he went to two of the Centinels (whom he had made drunk) upon the Forecastle, took their Pieces from them, and took their Prime out, and afterwards did the same by the Centinels on the Poop; then came down the Side of the Ship, and took one Skull himself, and the Boatman taking the other, made their best way for Portsmouth Harbour; his pretended Wife waiting at Gosport with a Horse ready for him. After discharging the Bomb-Boatman, they mounted their Horses and came † Being an ancient Word for a German Sword-Blade, which was the Watch word agreed between Rochead and Sarah Lowther , for the Reception of the Bomb-Boat Man.

to London that Night, to her Lodgings in Goodman's-Fields , when in a little Time, they moved to King's-Head-Court , Shoe-Lane , where they continued for some time, she following her old Course of Life, as picking up Gentlemen, &c. After this Manner she supported him. After they had lived here sometime, she removed to Cooper's-Alley, in White-Cross-street, and continued there about half a Year; when finding Business fall off, she returned to her old Lodgings in King's-Head Court again, in hopes of better Fortune; but here she was disappointed, and her Circumstances being so very bad, that she was obliged to pawn all her Cloaths, so that she had not so much as a Gown to make her Appearance in the Streets of an Evening, which was her constant Practice, on purpose to pick up Gentlemen, and to plunder them at the same Time. Money being so very short, and neither of them having any thing to subsist on, she told him one Evening, that he must Turn out, for she could not maintain him any longer, for she had not a proper Dress to appear in as usual. Upon which, he replied, he would do any Thing in Life to support her, nay, venture his Neck, rather than she should want for any Thing.

ACCORDINGLY, in about a Week after, he, and two other Seamen went to Goodman's-Fields , on a Saturday Night, about ten o'Clock, and meeting with a Captain of a Merchant-Ship (as they supposed him to be) coming out of a House of ill Fame in Ayloffe Street , robb'd him of two Guineas, a Silver Watch, and nineteen Shillings in Silver. The Captain calling out Stop Thieves, a Person immediately laid hold on one of the Company, upon which, Rochead knocked him down, rifled his Pockets of a Silver Tobacco box, seven Shillings in Silver, and a Pinchbeck Headed Cane, and left him sprawling on the Ground, and then all three made off thro' White-Chapel , threatening Destruction to any Body that should offer to oppose them, each having a Stick in one Hand, and a Pistol in the other; and then they all made the best of their Way to his Apartment; and Rochead's pretended Wife pledged the Watch that Night for two Guineas; after which, they shared the Money, giving her a Crown for her Trouble; Rochead taking the Tobacco-box as ten Shillings for a Part of his Share. After the Money was shared between them, each of them join'd their Twelvepence a-piece for a three Shilling Bowl of Punch, to drink Success to their New Undertaking.

IN about ten Days after, Sarah Lowther had the good Fortune to meet with a Prize of about ten Pounds, with which, she, with her supposed Husband Rochead, took their Pleasure, so that it was all spent in a Fortnight's Time.

IN two or three Days afterwards, she going her usual Walks in Fleet street , met with a Person, who took her into an Alley about Ten o'Clock at Night, whose Pocket she picked of a Canvas Bag; by the Weight of it she took it to be Gold: Being over-joy'd, she ran as fast as she could to her Husband, who was near at Hand in King's-Head-Court , and acquainted him, that they were made for ever, supposing the Person robbed to be a Merchant's Clerk; but examing the Bag, found it to consist of nothing more than Half-Pence, to the Amount of about Forty Shillings.

AS soon as this Money was gone, he, with one more, hired two Horses on a Sunday Morning, pretending they were to go about Twelve Miles on the Kentish Road, and to return the same Night; but instead of that, took the Chatham Road, with an Intent to rob some of the Receiving Clerks belonging to the Navy, or Landlords, or Landladies, who had received Money due to Sailors, from his Majesty's Ship Prince Frederick. But the Recalls not coming on so soon as they expected, mist of their Booty, and were obliged to return towards London, and upon their Way, they met with a Coach on Black-Heath , and stopped it, and took from the Passengers a Silver Watch, the Makers Name Quare and Horseman, No. 569, a Gold Ring from a Gentleman's Finger, and about Eight Pounds in Money. After this Robbery they made the best of their Way for the Borough, where they met with a Man near the Blue-Maid, and gave him a Shilling to take the Horse's Home near Smithfield .

ABOUT a Fortnight after this Robbery, Rochead meeting with an old Ship-mate, he being acquainted in the Navy, ask'd who was dead or alive? The other reply'd one Robert Roan , and others, who had made no Wills at their Decease; and Rochead thinking Roan to be the properest Person to pitch on, he forg'd the Will,

and his pretended Wife Sarah Lowther , proved it at Doctor's-Commons, as being the lawful Wife of the Deceased; and then Rochead went to the Yorkshire-Crop, and hired a Chaise for him and his Wie to go to Chatham. When they came to Chatham, she applying at the Hill-House, found the Money was received by another Person, who had made a speedier Application. After this they went to Mother Leask's, at the George near the Hill-House at Chatham, and she telling her the Augusta, not being upon the Recall, was incapable of receiving her Money at present; therefore not having Money enough to stay there, she desired the Favour of her to advance her some Money, and for her Security she would give her a Power of Attorney to receive the Wages; which Power was accordingly made by a Clerk at Chatham, and Rochead recommending her as a Friend, sign'd his Name to the Power, Robert Gordon , on which the Woman advanced near a Guinea to bear her Charges to London.

NOT long after this, Mrs. Leask applying to Commissioner Brown, for the Wages of Robert Roan , by her Power of Attorney, he ordered the Clerks to examine the Books in order for Payment, and upon searching, found the Money had been paid about six Weeks before, to another Person: Whereupon she was stopp'd in the Pay Office, till she gave proper Security how she came by the Papers. She being a Woman of undoubted Character, soon provided Security, and Sarah Lowther not appearing, she was oblig'd to put up with the Loss.

ABOUT a Fortnight after this happened, Rochead and his Wife fell out, on which he hearing of a Proclamation for Seamen Deserters to come in, enter'd himself Midshipman on Board a Man of War, at a Rendezvous at the Black-Boy and Trumpet in St Catherine's: After he had entered himself, some of the Petty Officers upbraiding him, he so resented it, that he beat some of them; upon which he was sent on board the Tender as a press'd Man, and after that was shipp'd on board the Princess Royal at the Noe, Capt. Obrian Commander, where he remained ill he was turned over to his Majesty's Ship Sutherland, she being ordered with some other Mn of War, to cruize in the Bay of Biscay for two Months.

THE Sutherland returning to Plymouth from the Cruize, Rochead received several Letters of Invitation from his pretended Wife Sarah Lowther , to return to London. He having no Opportunity to get on Shore, wrote to her to advance him a necessary Sum to defray his Charges, and he would make all the Expedition he possibly could. Upon which he feigned himself ill, and by that Means got on Shore to seek for a Lodging, in order, as he pretended, to have the Advice of a Physician. He had not been long ashore, before he wrote a Letter to the abovesaid Sarah Lowther , to remit him some Money to bear his Charges for London; accordingly she sent him Three Guineas, with which he returned to his old Lodging in King's-Head Court, near Shoe-Lane. He had not been long there, before Money began to be very short, and one Day drinking at a certain Public House, he there became acquainted with Charles Cleaver , at this Time under the same unhappy Circumstances with himself, who in Company with a third Person, frequently went to the Sign of the Van-Trump, in Brick-Lane , Spittlefields ; hearing there was a large Quantity of Money in the House, made several Attempts to rob it; but for want of a convenient Opportunity, were obliged to defer it for about a Month, being apprehensive the People of the House suspected them, as was afterwards confirm'd to them by the Master of the House, Cleaver pretended for Excuse to the Man who kept the House, that he often came that Way to walk for the Sake of his Health, and likewise to deceive him afterwards, told him, he was shortly going to Lisbon, and his other two Companions which were with him, were Mate and Boatswain of the Ship he was to go in.

ABOUT a Month after their frequenting this House, which was the Beginning of December, Rochead, Cleaver, and a third Person, went in about Four o'Clock in the Afternoon, there being at that Time no Company in the House, and the Landlord happening to be abroad, so that no Body was in the House but the old Woman, who they took an Opportunity of plying with hot Flip plentifully, and Cleaver having his Tongue well hung, kept her in Discourse, whilst Rochead, and his other Companion, went up Stairs, and broke open an Escrutore, from

whence they took (in Money and Bank Notes) to the Value of 150 l. and upwards; afterwards came down Stairs unperceiv'd by any Person, and staid drinking some Time, then paid their Reckoning, and were going away, but the old Woman would have her Quart of Flip, since they had been such civil Gentlemen in treating her: All the fine Speeches that Cleaver was Master of, could not prevail on her to the contrary; when it was out, they all three took their formal Leave of the old Woman, telling her at the same Time, they were to go to Sea forthwith.

THE next Day they went to a Linnen-Draper's in the City, where they laid out about Ten Pounds, and chang'd one of the Bank Notes of 20 l. which they had stolen. Within a Week after, the Man of the Van Trump saw the Note paid as Cash, for Goods bought at a Shop near Charing Cross, he being in the Shop at the same Time. Three other of these Notes were sold for half Value to some Jews in Dukes Place, the latter End of December last.

ON Saturday, December 31st last, Robert Rochead , Walter Neagle . (not yet taken) with one more, met together at a House in Covent Garden, and their consults to go Wapping Way to seek out for their Prey, being best acquainted with that Part of the Town; accordingly they set out from thence about 8 o'Clock in the Evening, arm'd with Hangers and Pistols for their black Purpose. Between 9 and 10 the same Evening the met a Man in Well Close square, in a white Surtout Coat, a Cloth Coat, and a laced Waistcoat; two of them attacked him, and at the same Time one clapped a Pistol to his Head, whilst the third stood at a little Distance with a drawn Sword, and demanded his Money. Upon which the Gentleman being in Liquor, cry'd, D - n my Bl - d, what do you mean? What Game is going forward? One of them reply'd, D - n my Bl - d, you Dog, your Money, or your Life; the Person with the Sword drawn crying, D - n my Bl - d, why don't you shoot the Dog if he don't deliver his Money, for we Gentlemen are not to be trifled withal. Shoot who, says the Gentlemen? D - n my Bl - d if I have got any Money for you; notwithstanding a Pistol was still held to his Head, he took an Opportunity to give a sudden Jirk, and got off with without being robb'd.

AFTER this Rochead and his Companions retired to Radcliffe Highway , from thence to Nightingale Lane , and so to New Hermitage-Stairs, waiting for Plunder, when in about ten Minutes they met with a Gentleman and his Wife, with a Boy in his Trouzers and a speckled Shirt, a lighting them with a Candle and Lanthorn. In endeavouring to attack them, a Press-Gang came up from Plow-Alley, so they were obliged to sheer off without their Booty. They since have been informed, that the Gentleman was a Captain of a Virginia Man, and had that very Evening received the Freight of his Cargoe.

BEING disappointed, they resolved among themselves to rob the first Person they met; accordingly they made the best of their Way to Little Tower-Hill ; they had not been there above half an Hour, before they saw a Dutchman coming along with a Pipe in his Mouth; on their usual Compliment they ordered him to stand still, if not, they would blow his Brains out. The Dutchman being surprized at this ill Treatment, was obliged to submit to have his Pockets searched, wherein they found about 7 or 8 s. Upon the Attack he shewed his Resentment so far as to draw out his long Knife, but finding himself overpowered, easily surrendered. After he was robbed, Rochead, with the great End of his Stick, contrary to the Consent of his Companions, knocked him down, and left him bleeding in a sad Condition.

THE same Night, about 11o'Clock, they stopp'd a tall elderly Gentleman in an Alley near Guildhall , and took from him a green Silk Purse, with six Half Crowns in it, and nineteen Pence in Copper, a Cork-screw, and a pair of steel Tweezers; after this, they repair'd to the Anchor and Crown in King's-Head-Court , near Shoe Lane , where they divided the Money, over a Tankard of Bombow.

ON Tuesday, January the 3d, one Mr. Constable was robb'd about 9 o'Clock in the Evening in Brewhouse Yard , near Burr-street , Wapping , of 12 Shillings; after they had committed this Robbery, they retired to a Public-House in the Minories; upon dividing the Money, Words arose between Neagle and Rochead; Neagle upbraided Rochead, and said, he saw Mr. Constable give him some Gold; upon which, Rochead replied, D - n your Blood, you Thief and Villain, I will blow your Brains out, if you say so. Neagle, reply'd,

and at the same Time pulling out a Pistol, swore he would be very ready to blow out Brains for Brains; one of the Companions, to prevent Murder, knock'd the Pistol out of his Hand, and gave it to Rochead, and then they divided the Money.

AFTER this, Neagle swearing Revenge on the first he met, going over Tower-Hill , with the rest of his Companions, attacked one Justice Willoughby, who lived on the Hill, and gave him two Blows with a Stick that stagger'd him; one of his Companions knowing the Gentleman, rush'd upon Neagle to prevent him from doing any further Mischief: The Gentleman having just left some of his Acquaintance at a Tavern; when he had recover'd himself, he cried out to his Friends whom he had just parted from, and they answered him; upon which, Rochead, Neale, and Cleaver, for fear of being detected, ran away, and left their other Companion behind them; who Justice Willoughby took hold of, and secur'd till his Friends came to his Assistance, and challeng'd him as a Confederate of the other three; upon which, he was committed that Night to the Tower Prison. The next Day being taken before Justice Dennet, Mr. Pidgeon and Mr. Constable appear'd; one swore to his Person, and the other to his Voice, and he being Conscious of his own Guilt, made himself an Evidence against the other Three.

AFTER this, Rochead and Neagle having Intelligence given them, that they were impeach'd by one of their Companions, shipp'd themselves on Board a Privateer; but had not been long on Board, before they, with others, mutined at Cowes in the Isle of Wight ; and going on Shore in the Long Boat, the Country rose on them, and with some Difficulty, took them, and deliver'd them on Board the Man of War; Rochead on Board the Shrewsbury, and Neagle on Board another, from whence Neagle made his Escape by swimming on Shore Rochead was ordered to be put in Irons by the Commanding Officer, he having Intelligence of his being one of the Persons concern'd in the Robbery on Tower-Hill, and for which he was afterwards condemn'd; he lay in Irons about six Weeks, and at last, there came an Order from the Admiralty, for him to be brought to Town; accordingly one UNWIN went down and fetch'd him up to London: He was brought and convey'd to Newgate Hand-Cuff'd in a Coach; he had not lain long before the Sessions began at the Old-Bailey, where he was tried and capitally convicted. On Thursday the Report of the Malefactors were made to his Majesty; Rochead's Sentence of Death, was, through the Clemency of his Majesty, changed to Transportation for 14 Years.

The following ACCOUNT is the Robberies committed by CLEAVER, and his Companions.

CHARLES CLEAVER , was born in White-Chapple , aged 29 Years; his Father being a Grocer, who liv'd in Reputation; when of Age, having given him proper Education, he put him Apprentice to a Cabinet Founder and Furbisher ; when he had serv'd his Master about six Years, he began to rob him, (by false Keys) at several Times of small Sums of Money, 'till unluckily one Day his Master happening to want something in his Room, when he came there, to his great Surprize, found his Man Charles at his Escrtore, upon which, he cried out, Charles! Charles! What are you doing there? Now I know who is the Thief; he having at Times missed several Sums of Money. Cleaver being shock'd at the Sight of his Master, and being taken in the very Fact, could not for sometime recover his Surprize. His Master immediately sent for his Father, for whom he had a very great Value, and acquainted him with his Son's robbing of him at several Times, and likewise, that he had detected him in the very Fact. Upon which, the poor Gentleman's Tears run down his Cheeks, to think how unhappy he was to have so wicked and base a Son; when he recover'd himself, he expostulated with his Son, and said, how could you wrong so good a Master, who has been rather a Father to you, than a Master? He immediately fell on his Knees, and begg'd for Mercy of both his Father and his Master, and said, he would acknowledge the whole Truth, if they would freely forgive him; and at the same Time, would acquaint them how he was induc'd; and promis'd them to serve the remainder of his Time faithfully and justly. He said he was drawn away by

one Elizabeth Wells , who kept a House of ill Fame in King-David's-Lane near Wapping , who persuaded him to rob his Master, which (he said) was to the Value of 3 or 4 l. and that he upon every Opportunity, returned to her with what he could get. His Master getting a Warrant, searched the above Elizabeth Wells 's House, and found a Velvet Scarf, an India Damask Silk Gown, besides some laced Caps, &c. of his Mistress's, upon which she was taken up, and was tried at the Old Bailey, and cast for Transportation.

AFTER this, upon his Promise (and out of Regard to his Father) of good Behaviour, his Master took him again, and he served the Remainder of his Time very faithfully and honestly. After his Time was expir'd, he made his Addresses to a Pawnbroker's Daughter on Saffron-Hill, whom he married, and had 500 l. Fortune with her, and then set up his Trade in Holborn, and had an Apprentice and two Journeymen, and continued his Trade two Years, during which he lived in good Reputation.

AT last his Wife and he disagreeing, he flew out, and kept Company with Women of the Town, spent his Substance, and frequently upbraided her with the Manner by which her Money was got, and declared he thought it would never thrive. Being short of Money, he pawn'd all his Wife's Cloaths, and sold off all his Goods, except his working Tools; after that he delivered up his Apprentice's Indentures, and discharged his two Men. He parted from his Wife, who was at that Time big with Child, then went and took a Room for himself in Gunpowder Alley in Shoe-Lane ; his Wife returned to her Friends, then he, to blind the World, would now and then go to Jobbing Work. One Day drinking at a Public House, he there became acquainted with a certain Blacksmith, he and Cleaver used to make it their Business to go to several Public Houses, and watching the People of the House where they put their Tankards, would take Dimensions of the Key Hole, in order to make Keys proper to open the same; afterwards coming to the said Houses, would easily convey the Plate away. This they follow'd together for about Ten Months.

ONE Day they went to a Public House which is kept by a Widow Woman at Blackwall ; after drinking some ime, they took an Opportunity by their false Keps to open a Chest of Drawers, from whence they took to the Value of about 18 l. among which were some Pieces of Gold of King Charles I. which neither of them understanding the real Value of, Words arose between them, and they parted.

AFTER they had parted, Cleaver took a Lodging in Ayloffe Street , Goodman's-Fields , and by frequently going backward and forward, got acquainted with a Servant Maid belonging to a Widow Gentlewoman, opposite against where he lodged; he pretending to the young Woman that he was a single Man, made his Addresses to her, upon which he had free Access into her Mistress's House, especially when her Mistress was in Bed, and lay there several Nights unknown to the Gentlewoman. One Night he took an Opportunity to open a Buroe, and took out of it an old Silver two handled Cup, half a Dozen of Silver Spoons, one Dozen of Tea Spoons, Tongs, and Boat, with several other Things of Value; afterwards he let himself out in the Morning, and made the best of his Way for Islington, where he took a Lodging near the Peacock; the same Day he pawn'd the half Dozen of Spoons for 35 s. In two Days afterwards, he going to see the Servant Maid, was secured on Suspicion of robbing the House: He denied for some Time that he knew any thing of it, and was very much surprized that the Gentlewoman should have any Suspicion of him; all his Arguments would not prevail, for she was going to carry him before a Magistrate; when he seeing that she was resolved on it, then desired to speak with her, and asked, if he told the Truth, and she had her Things again, except the half Dozen of Spoons which were pawn'd, she would not prosecute him. Accordingly she gave her Word she would not. Then he immediately confessed he had robbed her, and at the same Time told her that all her Things were at his Lodgings at Islington, except the half Dozen of Spoons which he had pawned; accordingly she sent proper Persons along with him to his Lodgings at Islington, where they found all the Gentlewoman's Things, except the aforesaid half Dozen of Spoons, which she fetched out of Pawn, and thereupon discharg'd him.

BEING destitute of Money, he made Application to his Brother, who supply'd him with two Guineas, and persuaded him to live with his Wife again, which he comply'd with; then he took a Lodging in Cock Lane near the Fortune of War, and for about four or five Months continued his Trade, and appeared very full of Money, that

some of his Neighbours had a Suspicion of him, that he coined. Frequenting the Fortune of War, he there became acquainted with one Grace Macmullin a Scotch Woman, much noted as a Woman of the Town, and she brought him acquainted with one * Matthew Mooney , with whom he committed several Robberies, one of which was on a Cornfactor in returning from Rumford Market, from whom they took about forty Pounds in Money, a silver Watch and Tweezer Case, about nine o'Clock at Night; they having been informed of his having a Charge of Money about him, Cleaver attacked him first and claping a Pistol to his Breast obliged him to dismount; than Mooney coming up insisted upon searching for his Pocket-Book, supposing there might be Bank Notes in it, but found none; than suffered him to mount again, threatning to shoot him if he offered to speak a Word, or ride after them; they afterwards came to Town, and went directly to Cleaver's Lodgings in Cock-Lane , where the divided their Booty.

AFTER this, Cleaver once more left his Wife for a Time, and with the Money took a House for Grace Macmullin in Ratcliff, Highway , near the King's-Arms, where she harboured Persons of ill Fame, Mooney and Cleaver pass'd for her Lodgers. She giving a pretty deal of Credit to some Sailors that use to frequent her House, she grew thereby short of Money; upon which she apply'd to her old Friend Cleaver to know how she should proceed. D - n it says he, Mooney and I, will turn out and get you some Money; accordingly they both set out about ten o'Clock in the Evening, in order to seek their Fortune, in Tottenham Court Road ; in their way through the City, Cleaver spy'd a Gentleman making Water against one of the Pillars of the Royal-Exchange , and he said to Mooney, do you stand by, i'll do the Business; he is a right Cull, and stepping up to him, accosted him with the usual Salutation; upon that the Gentleman reply'd, I hope you are not in earnest, Cleaver answered him softly; D - n my Blood, if you offer to speak a Word, (several People passing by at the same time) I will blow your Brains about your Ears; upon which the Gentleman desired him not to use him ill, and he would deliver all he had, and then gave him a Canvas Bagg, wherein was fourteen Thirty-shilling Pieces, and nine Guineas in Gold, and asking him if he had any more Money about him; he answered some few Shillings; upon which he bid him keep them, and drink his Health; and with a great may Imprecations charged him to make no Noise upon Pain of Death, and so left him.

THEN instead of Cleaver and his Companion Mooney pursuing their intended Rout, they returned to Cock lane and divided the Booty; Cleaver imagined the Gentleman robbed, knew him, thereupon he moved his Quarters the next Day into Cold-Bath-Fields , where he took a House of ten Pounds per Ann. and frequenting the Ben Johnson's Head, in that Neighbourhood, he took an Opportunity by false Keys to rob the House to the Value of about six or seven Pounds; in which he was detected; but the People did not prosecute him in regard to his Wife and Child; which Child had the Misfortune to be scal'd to to Death, about a Year ago.

AFTER this he returned to his old Acquaintance Grace Macmullin in Ratcliffe Highway , where he with Mooney staid till their Money was exhausted; then Cleaver told Mooney, he knew there was Plate in St. Sepulchre's Church , which he thought they might come at, by the help of false Keys that he had at Home. Upon which Mooney reply'd, D - n his Blood, he would do any thing with him, that he could propose. Then they returned to Cleaver's House, and took a Bundle of false Keys, and about twelve at Night, went to the Church, and by the Means of some of those Keys opened the Doors, and took the Plate out of an Iron Chest in the vestry Room, and taking it to his House that Night; the Robbing of the Church of so much Plate made such a Noise in the World, that for fear of being Discovered, they thought it not safe to keep it in his House, upon which they both, about two Days after the Robbery, privately conveyed it into a Pond near White Conduit Fields , where some Part was found by a Boy accidentally Bathing there. Cleaver having been observed to lurk about the Church several Evenings, and be

* Who was executed at Tyburn on Monday the 22d of November 1742, for robbing on the Highway, one Mr. Goodwin, of a Watch, a silver snuffBox, and two Shillings in Silver.

ing of an indifferent Character, was taken up on Suspicion, but for Want of Proof, was discharged. Since he was under Condemnation, a Gentleman one Day went into the Cell, on Purpose to ask him, whether he was cocerned in the abovesaid Robbery. He denied that he knew any thing of it, directly, nor indirectly. The above Account of this Robbery was given by one of his own Companions, to whom (as that Person says) he told it about two Days after Mooney and he had committed the Robbery. The Reader is at his Liberty to believe which of the two he pleases.

AFTER this Robbery he went to Macmullin's, from whence he and Mooney, with one Tool, since executed at Long-Reach, on Board his Majesty's Ship Antelope, for Desertion, went to Cleaver's House, where Cleaver sold his working Tools to find Money for himself, Tool and Mooney to go down to Portsmouth, to raise Contributions on the Road; whereupon they hired three Horses in the Borough on a Sunday, pretending only to go for a Day's Pleasure, and pursuing their intended Journey, when they all three came as far as Ripley, they met with two Lieutenants of Men of War, and swore if they did not stand, they would blow their Brains out; one of them drew his Sword, and swore he would run them through; upon which Mooney rid up to him, and fired a Pistol, which took off the Corner of his Hat, then they surrendered; they took from them about nine Pounds in Money, one gold Watch and a silver one; a small Sword and an Hanger, and also two double Dubloons; this being about seven o'Clock in the Evening; after they had committed this Robbery, they all three rode to the White Hart at Guilford, where they lay that Night.

NEXT Morning between nine and ten, they robbed a Gentleman (who said he belonged to General Honeywood's Regiment) upon the Heath, half way between Guilford and Godliman ; from whom they took about six Pounds in Money, and a Bank Note of twenty Pounds. Afterwards they avoided the Portsmouth Road, for fear of being pursued, and took a quite contrary Road, till they came to Winchester, where they staid that Night, and the next Day went to Gosport, without doing any thing. Upon their Arrival, they put their Horses up at Gosport-Beech ; they made all the enquiry they could after Persons that might be supposed to have Money. One Evening as they were drinking, at the Blue-Anchor, one Captain Farmer, happening to be in their Company, they saw him receive between forty and fifty Pounds, after he had staid about half an Hour, he paid his Reckoning and took leave of his Company; he had not been gone long, before Cleaver and his two Companions follow'd him, and overtook him at about half Way to his own House, which was at a Place called Stoke; then Cleaver with a Pistol in his Hand, stepped up to him, and begged the Favour of him to lend him that Sum of Money, which he saw him receive about two Hours ago, in such a Place; for he said, he thought he appeared a more creditable Person, than the Persons he had lent it to; and if he disputed his Word and Honour, he wou'd give him his Bond; upon which the Captain reply'd he did not know him, and said, at the same Time, it was a very unreasonable Request for a Stranger to ask Mooney upon this stepped up, and said, D - n my Blood do you know me, will you lend it to me? at the same Time clapping a Pistol to his Breast, swearing if he denied, he would have his Life; Sir said the Captain, take away your Pistol, and you shall have my Money, he being a long time pulling it out, Tool stepped up and said, God D - n my Blood, why are you so long about so small a Trifle, shoot the old Rogue; upon which Cleaver reply'd, the old Man is doing it as fast as he can, and I will help him, and when they had got the Money, Cleaver shook Hands with him, and wished him good Night. Then they all three returned and took their Horses, and that Night they made the best of their Way to Southampton, and put up their Horses at the Spread-Eagle, and about five o'Clock the next Morning, they went in Pursuit of fresh Adventures towards Salisbury , where they arrived without meeting with any Chance on the Road; lying there that Night; the next Morning they moved on towards Bristol , and about two o'Clock in the Afternoon, they met with one Captain Hayman, (whose Ship lay at Bristol,) by the great Tree about the middle of the Plain, whom they attacked with the usual Salutation, of a God D - n, stand and deliver or else you are a dead Man; he reply'd Gentlemen, I have but very little Money, just enough to bear my Expences to London. Cleaver said, come don't be ill-natured, let us see how much Money you have got, turn all your Pockets out, we won't distress you; upon which he pulled out a green Purse with nine Guineas

in it, which they took from him, and at the same Time took a Pocket Book from him, in which was a Note on a Merchant in London, of 130 l. payable on Sight, which they returned, and gave him a Guinea to bear his Charges to London, after that wished him a good Journey; and gave him the Watch-word, which was, you have been spoke with.

AFTER this Robbery, they made towards Bristol , and at a Place called Halt, they met with an old Farmer, who had been at Market to sell Sheep, whom they robbed of about 35 l. which they took out of a long greasy Bag; after this Robbery, they went immediately to Bath, where they repaired to the Gaming-Tables, and had not been there a Week, before they were stripped of their Money at Play. When they left Bath they went to Bristol , and when they came there, they put up their Horses at Forsum's-Back , after they had put up their Horses, they went to Michaels-Hill and Joulling's-Lees , where they drank pretty plentiful, and their Behaviour being so very extravagant, they were taken up, to give an Account of themselves. When they came before the Magistrate, they said, they had lately come from the West-Indies, and were come from London to see some Friends in Bristol , and then design'd to return; upon which they were ordered three Days Notice to depart, and at the End of two Days they left Forsum's-Back , and went to Kingswood , where they staid till next Day Noon, and half a Mile from Kings-wood , they attacked a Gentleman, who had but five Shillings, and said it was at their Service; upon which Tool struck him with his Whip, and swore he was a Villain for travelling with so little Money about him. Cleaver rode up to Tool and reprimanded him for using the Gentleman so ill; and said at the same Time, if the Gentleman knew of our coming, he would have been better provided. The Gentleman recovering himself from the Blow which he received, he made one at Tool, saying he was a Villain, but the other was a Gentleman, (meaning Cleaver) upon which Tool returning the Blow, knocked him off his Horse, and he crying out Murder, some People coming by, among them were two Colliers, which Cleaver and Mooney both fired at, and Cleaver happening to shoot one of the Colliers into the Shoulder; more coming to their Assistance, they rode off, and Cleaver's Horse falling he was taken, and committed to Newgate in Bristol, the Gentleman robbed swearing to him; he had not been confined but about five Days, before he made his Escape. Money being very short with him, he was obliged to beg his Way to London. When he came there he went immediately to his old Friend Grace Macmullins; where he met with his two Companions Mooney and Tool, and he falling out with them, about their leaving him, and very high Words rising they parted. Mooney immediately after this, entered into a new Gang, was soon after taken and executed; and a little Time afterwards Tool was taken and hang'd on Board the Antelope as above mentioned.

CLEAVER hearing of Mooney's being taken up, and fearing he would turn Evidence, immediately left his old Lodgings, and went to Chelsea to lodge, and on the Road thither, he robbed a Man of two Guineas and a silver Watch, then made the best of his Way to Chelsea. He had not lodged above five Days at the House, before he took all Opportunities to observe where the Money lay; having no proper Tools for his Purpose, he came to London, and went to his old Lodging for proper Instruments, then he returned back to his Lodgings at Chelsea, and when the People of the House were pretty Busie, he went up Stairs, and opened a Chest with the Instrument which he brought with him, and took out in Money to the amount of about 16 l. and immediately came to London. Being obliged to abscond upon an Account of this Robbery, he went to Rotherhith, where he became acquainted with Rochead, who is now his Fellow Prisoner on the Common-side of Newgate, and were both under Sentence of Death, for the Robberies committed by them on Tower-Hill; but have received his Majesty's Reprieve to be transported for fourteen Years.

FINIS.

