THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, ON TUESDAY the 13th of April, 1743.

BEING THE SECOND EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Robert Willimot , Esquire .

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

Number II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLIII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable ROBERT WILLIMOT , Esq; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Right Honourable Lord Chief Justice WILLES, the Honourable Mr. Justice CHAPPLE, the Honourable Mr. Baron ABNEY, and the Honourable Mr. Serjeant URIN, Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the said City, and Justices of Goal-Delivery for London and Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, the 8th, 9th, and 10th of December, 1742, and in the Sixteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

SEVEN Men, viz. David Tod , Richard Hassell , Michael Buley , Lot Cavenagh , Thomas Haven , Jacob Cordosa , John Robinson , and one Woman, viz. Cordelia Taylor , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Crimes, and had Sentence of Death pronounced upon them.

ALSO, at the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable ROBERT WILLIMOT , Esq; Lord-Mayor of the City of London , the Right Honourable Lord Chief Baron PARKER, the Honourable Mr. Justice WRIGHT, the Honourable Mr. Justice BURNET, the Honourable Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday, and Wednesday, being the 14th, 15th, 17th, 18th, and 19th of January, 1742.

NINE Men, viz. Thomas Dennis , William Bland , or Brand , Bryan Cooley , William Burnet , John Tighe , Thomas Cummyns , Gerard Cavenagh , Patrick Kelley , and Daniel Wicket , and two Women, viz. Honor Cavenagh and Catherine Kelly , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

AS also, at the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Goal-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable ROBERT WILLIMOT , Esq; Lord-Mayor of

the City of London, the Honourable Mr. Baron CARTER, the Honourable Mr. Baron DENNISON, the Honourable Mr. Serjeant URLIN, Recorder of the said City, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Goal-Delivery for London and Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 23d, 24th, and 25th of February, 1742-3, and in the Sixteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

FOUR Men, viz. James Smith , James Roberts , Stephen Wright , and Henry Bully , and one Woman. viz. Ann Bradford , were by the Jury convicted of capital Crimes, and received Sentence of Death.

WHILE under Sentence, most of them being very ignorant, they were instructed in the necessary Articles of our Holy Religion, as our Blessed Saviour directs us, John xvii. 3. And this is Life eternal to know thee, and Jesus Christ whom thou has sent. Whence it was needful to observe to them, that the saving Knowledge of God, and Jesus Christ, secures to us eternal Life; and therefore it is necessary that we endeavour to attain this saving Knowledge.

THEY were likewise admonished sincerely to repent of all their Sins, especially those heinous and villainous Crimes, for which they then suffered so much Shame and Sorrow. To repent of Sin, so as to forsake it; to forsake it, so as to be in Love with the Dictates of Piety, Holiness, and Virtue; to love God, his Precepts and his Ordinances above all Things, and to run in the Way of his Commandments, so as not to grow Weary; to labour so as not to faint, for says our Blessed Saviour, Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish, Luke xiii. 3. And St. Peter to those very Jews who were the Betrayers and Crucifiers of the Lord of Life and Glory, " Repent ye therefore, i. e. of that horrid Guilt " of murthering Christ, with which he had " upbraided them, and be converted, that " your Sins may be blotted out, when the " Times of refreshing shall come from the " Presence of the Lord." From this I observed, that the greatest of Sinners are invited to come unto Christ; " Come unto me all " ye that are weary and heavy laden, and I " will give you rest, St. Matthew xi. 23. " &c.

THEY were also instructed as to the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, to renew their Baptismal Vows, by receiving the blessed Communion of our Lord's last Supper, wherein we have the Intent and Efficacy of Christ's Death and Sufferings represented, exhibited, and conveyed to us in a visible and lively Manner. Accordingly most of them took the Sacrament, and behaved very devoutly thereat, twice before the Report was made, having been several Weeks under Sentence.

WHILE these, and many like Admonitions were given, they all attended in Chappel, and seemed very earnest at Prayers and Exhortations, being more affected and serious than many of those unfortunate Creatures often are. Some of them were sick at Times, but so soon as they could conveniently, came up to Chappel, and joined in our religious Exercises. However William Burnet , a Boy of fifteen or sixteen, was most Part of the Time sick, so that he could but seldom assist at Chappel, tho' when present he behaved quietly, but was always very indisposed, and had nobody to come after him. Gerard Cavenagh and Honor his Wife , and Patrick Kelly and Catherine his Wife , which two Women were Sisters by Birth as well as in Iniquity; (all the four last named were for High-Treason in counterfeiting the current Coin of this Kingdom) as also Bryan Cooley , all of them attended very regularly with the rest, though they were all five of them Irish Papists , excepting sometimes certain Persons of their own Persuasion privately visited them.

UPON Thursday, the 24th of March, 1742-3, Report was made to his Majesty in Council of these 24 Malefactors, when Thomas Cummins , for assaulting Thomas Bond on the Highway, putting him in Fear, a Shirt, Value 20 s. a long Muslin Neckcloth, Value 2 s. a Cambrick Handkerchief, Value 3 s. and a Pair of Shoes, Value 5 s. the Property of Samuel Bond , December 17th; Ann Bradford , for stealing Nineteen Guineas, the Money of William Brown , in the Dwelling-House of John Lancaster , Feb. 16; William Brand for assaulting William Blackwell on the Highway, and taking from him a Hat, Value 2 s. 6 d. Dec. 25; received his Majesty's most gracious Pardon. Catherine Kelley and Honor Cavenagh , two Sisters, for High-Treason, in counterfeiting the current Coin of this Kingdom, in Conjunction with their Husbands (who were executed) were ordered to be transported for Life. Richard Hassel for stealing forty Pieces of Portugal Gold Coin, called Moidores, Value 34 l. and thirty-five Pieces of Gold Coin, called Guineas, Value 36 l. 15 s. the Monies of Philip Brown , Samuel Slater , and Thomas Brown , in their Dwelling-House, Oct. 29; John Robinson for breaking and entering the Dwelling-House of Triphena Eden , Widow , in the Night, and taking from thence two Casks, containing eight Gallons of Rum, one Cask containing ten Gallons of Brandy, &c. the Goods of the said Triphena Eden , Oct. 15; Thomas Haven , of St. Mary le bon , for stealing thirty-one Pieces of Gold Coin, called Guineas, Value 32 l. 11 s. one Piece of Portugal Gold, Value 3 l. 12 s. one Piece ditto, Value 1 l. 16 s. and 33 s. in Money, the Money of Richard Cross , in his Dwelling-House, Oct. 29; Daniel Wicket for assaulting Sarah Smith on the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her four Shifts, three Aprons, four Caps, three Handkerchiefs, and one Pair of Stays, Dec. 21; were ordered to be transported for fourteen Years. John Tighe , of Chatham , in the County of Kent , Coachman , for that he, after the 24th Day of June, 1736, to wit, on the 13th of May, in the fifteenth Year of his Majesty's Reign, in the Parish of St. Margaret, Westminster , in the County of Middlesex , did forge and counterfeit, or caused to be forged and counterfeited, and did willingly act and assist in forging and counterfeiting a certain Instrument, partly printed and partly written and sealed, purporting to be a general Release, with the Name of George Frogget , of Chatham , in the County of Kent , Ship-Wright ; and Henry Bulley , for breaking and entering the House of Joseph Taylor , Esq ; in the Hospital of Bridewell , about the Hour of three in the Night, and stealing one Silver Cup and Cover, 2 Silver Mugs, 6 Salvers, 3 Dozen of Spoons, 2 Dozen of Silver handled Knives, 37 Forks, 1 Silver Sauce-Pan, 3 Salts, 3 Salt Spoons, &c. Value 80 l. the Property of Joseph Taylor , Esq ; in the said Dwelling-House, Feb. 15; were respited to a further Hearing or Report, some Circumstances having appeared upon their Trials which seem'd to plead in their Favour. The remaining Thirteen, viz. Michael Bewley , David Todd , Cordelia Taylor , Lot Cavenagh , Jacob Cordosa , William Burnet , Thomas Dennis , Patrick Kelley , Garret Cavenagh , Bryan Cooley , Stephen Wright , James Roberts , and James Smith , were order for Execution, but Jacob Cordosa and Cordelia Taylor were afterwards reprieved.

Michael Bewley , of St. Giles Cripplegate , was indicted for breaking and entering the Dwelling-house of David Hodges , after the Hour of seven at Night, and stealing four Pewter Plates, Value 2 s. the Goods of David Hodges , October 25.

1. Michael Bewley , 24 Years of Age, of honest Parents in Bishopsgate street , was educated at School, so far as to be able to read the Bible, and every thing else that was good, as he advanced in Years. His Father being a Weaver of Handkerchiefs, when Michael was of Age, he was bound Apprentice to him , and served his Time, as he says, honestly; when his Apprenticeship was expired, he wrought for himself, and married a very sober Woman,

and might have provided very handsomely for his Family; but inclining to Vice and Idleness, did not mind his Business, and associated with the vilest Company both of Men and Women, which completely ruin'd him; he had some Children, who were so happy as to die before him. He own'd the committing the Burglary he died for, confessing, that he took out two Panes of Glass, and got in at a Window, intending to strip the Kitchen of the Pewter, and every thing else he could have laid Hands on; but Mrs. Hodges coming home just at the Time, he only mov'd four Plates, laying them on the Dresser, for then being interrupted, he was obliged to hurry off without his Prize, and happy had it been for him could he have got off so; but the good Woman seeing him jump out at the Window he came in by, and he happening to fall, she immediately seized and brought him to Justice, otherwise he intended to have plundered the House of every Thing valuable. He declared farther, that he should never have left off that pernicious and destructive Course of Life; but that he had never been guilty of any Burglary, except that for which he had been apprehended, having dealt only in little Rogueries, such as robbing Shops, whilst the Backs of People were turned, and cutting Cloth off the Tenters, with other such like indiscreet Practices which brought him to this deserved, untimely, and ignominious End. In Effect, what better could be expected, having always led a most profligate Life, keeping always the vilest of Company, both Men and Women, especially the latter, for whom he forsook his lawful Wife; and being seldom or never Sober for any long Time, in spite of all wholesome Instructions, Reproofs, and Admonitions of his honest Father, and Spouse, who were continually prophecying, and forewarning him, but too truly, what would be the End of such vicious and destructive Courses.

ONE Thing above all, stuck for sometime terribly in his Stomach, namely, that he should suffer Death for only breaking into a House, when he did not carry any Thing off; but he never considered that was not owing to any Goodness in himself, but only to his being interrupted and prevented; his Design having been, not to have spared any Thing. At last, however, he seemed better reconciled to it, owned the Justice of his Sentence, and declared he heartily repented, and forgave every one, dying in Peace with all Men, and hoping for Salvation through the Merits and Sufferings of Jesus Christ, in which we hope he was sincere, and are inclined, as we are bound in Charity, to believe he was so, since he did not seem desirous of living longer.

Lot Cavenagh , and Cordelia Taylor , were indicted for assaulting William Taylor on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him one Fustian Frock, with twelve Plate-Buttons, Value 40 s. one white Duffil Coat, Value 15 s. one Cloth Waistcoat, Value 5 s. one Pair of Buckskin Breeches, Value 10 s. one Perriwig, Value 10 s. a Hat, Value 5 s. and a Pair of Silver Buckles, Value 6 s. October 4.

2. Lot Cavenagh , aged 27, was born in the City of Dublin , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, so as that he could read, write, and cast Accounts pretty well; nor was he ignorant of the Christian Faith, as profess'd by the Church of England, having been instructed therein by his Father, who was a Protestant. When he was of a fit Age, he was bound to an Apothecary of the City of Dublin , and having staid with him four Years, understood enough of the Business to qualify him for a Surgeon's Mate ; but he was of such a roving Disposition, that he could not apply himself seriously to any Sort of Business; so not waiting to finish his Education, either as a Surgeon or Apothecary, he engaged in the Service of divers Noblemen and Gentlemen , with whom he travelled almost all over Europe, at least, the better Part of it, England , France , Germany , Italy , Flanders , Holland , Spain , &c. and if we believe him,

in all these Rambles, he was exactly honest and just in his Dealings towards his Masters and all others.

SOME Years ago he came to London , where he never had the Grace to do much good, but was perpetually Intent upon Mischief, keeping the vilest of Men and Women Company that could be found in or about the Town, and he and they having no good Council to give one another, and as all such People are, being inclined to nothing but Vice and Idleness, he turned a Highwayman and Street-Robber, and was guilty of many attrocious Facts that way, though he could not ennumerate all the Particulars; but amongst the Rest, he ingenuously confessed the robbing of William Taylor , and that he and Cordelia Taylor did actually take all the Goods mentioned in the Indictment, and disposed of them as they thought proper: In effect, he was very Way, being a Slave to drink, particularly Gin, and to the vilest Women that could be found; and this was his constant Course of Life, and as it required no little Money to uphold this, and he had no other way of acquiring Supplies, but by such villainous and unlawful Means as stealing and tricking, it is no wonder it brought him at last to an untimely End, since he had followed this Practice, together with his vile Associates for several Years past.

AS for Cordelia Taylor , who was indicted, and found guilty with Lot Cavenagh , for the same Fact for which he suffered, she was an unaccountable, wild, extravagant, and daring Woman; having lived upwards of eleven Months with Taylor, the Prosecutor, and passed for his Wife , as Lot affirmed, though sometimes she would deny it, and say, she had lived only with the latter. Upon being pressed hard to tell the Truth, however, she could not help owning, she had served and lived with them both by turns, to which, as she was desirous of having it believed, it was owing, that Taylor had prosecuted her, her leaving him, and preferring Cavenagh's Company to his, having before occasioned many Quarrels between them.

IN effect, however that be, it is certain, they had all three been in Company together, at Lot's Lodging, at one Gascoign's, in Hockley in the Hole , the Night before the Fact was committed, and Taylor, who likewise lay there that Night, being obliged to go out betimes in the Morning to Market, for he was a Butcher, and having ordered the Landlady to call him up accordingly, the Devil put it into the Head of Lot Cavenagh , and Cordelia Taylor , their Money being then at a low Ebb, to follow and rob him. So over-heated were they with Liquor, so little capable of Reflection, and so blind to all the Consequences of this rash Enterprize, that they never considered how much such a Treatment was likely to exasperate him; as also that, as he not only was intimately acquainted with them both, but knew always where to find them, it was putting their Lives directly into his Power.

ACCORDINGLY, no sooner was Taylor called up, which was about Three in the Morning, but they got up likewise, and followed him immediately after he was gone out of the House; he had not got far, before Cavenagh overtook him, presented a Pistol to his Breast, and bid him stand and deliver; and as he had no more Money left than Three-pence, he stript him of all his Cloaths, Breeches and all, which was something unkind in an old Acquaintance and Companion, it being then the fourth of October.

WHILST this was a-doing, Dilly had the Courage, with a drawn Hanger in her Hand, to stand over him, Lot threatening, if he spoke a Word, to blow his Brains out: Thus they left Taylor naked, and he in revenge, in a few Days, had them taken up, and brought to Justice.

In this Affair, 'tis pretty odd, to see Taylor prosecuted capitally, the Girl, who, for a

considerable Time past for his Wife, and no less strange it is, that Dilly was of so savage a Disposition, as to rob her Paramour of all his Cloathing, and in a cold Winter Night, to set him out through the Streets naked; nay Cordelia bid him shoot the Dog because he knew them; but Providence restrained them from this Excess of Wickedness. In effect, both Lot Cavenagh and Cordelia Taylor , were very wicked Creatures, and their being so very drunk with Gin, made them mad, and occasioned all this fatal Catastrophe, for they had been rambling and drinking all that Day, which was the Lord's Day, when sober Christians meet for the Worship of God; and this Ramble they continued in, until they were taken up.

A Romish Emissary would have had him turn Papist, insisting pretty much upon it; but he would not, nor would Cordelia allow him, though it is to be imagined, neither hers nor his Religion was much; but he told me, his Father was a Tradesman in Dublin, of the Church of England, and took him and his three Brothers constantly to Church with himself, but allowed the Mother, who was a rigid Papist, to take the Girls to Mass with her. He was very willing to confess the Particulars of his Life, (as in the Appendix) and for the most Part behaved indifferently well; but when I spoke to him in private in the Closet, after a little Communication, not being willing to hear good Advice, he ran away. He was unacquainted with, and did not approve the Romish way of Religion, but lov'd the Church of England best. He was a prophane, impudent, ungovernable Fellow. On Monday the 28th of February, 1742-3, he and Cordelia got fuddled, and were very obstreperous, crying out against, and threatning Mr. Wilcox, one of the Turnkeys; but he took no Notice of them. At last, Lot was so unruly, that they were obliged to staple him down in the Cell for a Day or two. Of this Misbehaviour, both of them heartily repented, at least as they said. Lot Cavenagh , before his Suffering, affirmed, he had a confident Hope of being saved by the Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ, and that he sincerely repented of a most wicked and profligate Life, and died in Peace with all the World.

William Burnet , was indicted for assaulting Elizabeth , the Wife of Francis Bailey , on the Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her a Short-cloak, Value 6 s. the Property of Francis Bailey , December 18.

3. William Burnet , 16 Years of Age, born in a Town in the West-riding of Yorkshire , of mean Parents, had little or no Education, and was not put to any Trade when young, so he turned his Hand whilst in the Country, to what he could; amongst the rest, he lookt after Horses , the only settled Business he ever had; he next turned Postillion to the Stagecoaches , and upon Occasions he rode Post, and was many Times at London : He was a silly, unthinking Boy, and knew little of any thing, which was owing in a great Measure to his Youth, and want of Education. As the robbing Mrs. Bailey of her Cloak, at first he denied it to me, though the Morning after he did the Fact, he own'd it before several Witnesses; however, afterwards he acknowledged the same to me, though before he alledged but faintly, he was only in Company with others who committed the Robbery. He was very quiet, and behav'd better than many others more advanc'd in Years. In effect, though he was a poor, ignorant Boy, he did not appear so wicked as many of them under such dismal Calamities, and many of them under the same Misfortune, were bad enough to corrupt a more confirmed Virtue than his, having sometimes committed scandalous Enormities: He was instructed as the Time and his Capacity allowed. He believed in God and Christ, and was in Peace with all Men.

4. Thomas Dennis was indicted for stealing a light Dun Gelding, Value 7 l. 7 s. the Property of George Wright , Esq ; November the 29th.

4. Thomas Dennis was 23 Years of Age, born in Bedfordshire , of mean Parents, who gave him little or no Education, and what he had he had forgot all. When of Age he was put to no Trade, but did Country Work , and served Gentlemen and Farmers; and was sometimes in Town, where he served in the Saloop-Shop in Fleet-street , 2 Years, and another Year with one Mr. Scot, a Brewer in Westminster , in both which he retained a good Character. His Father lives in the Country, and from him he pretended he had the Mare or Horse, for the stealing of which he suffered; and upon his Information his said Father was to have been apprehended, a Warrant being out against him; but the Old Man having some Scent of it, and fearing to be taken up for the same Crime with his Son, fled, and is now no where to be found. He was indicted a second Time for stealing a Horse, but no Evidence appearing, he was acquitted. He lately, within a few Months, married a Milliner in Holbourn , and she came to visit him when under Sentence, and offered him a little Money for Subsistence, which he refused, and forbid her to trouble herself to come to him any more; accordingly she obeyed his Orders, and never saw him again. He seemed to be a silly, insignificant young Fellow, and was very ignorant in Religious Matters; I instructed him as the Time could allow. He behaved very decently and penitently, and it is to be hoped obtained Mercy from God. He believed in Christ as the Son of God, and the only Saviour of Sinners, declared he repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all the World.

Patrick Kelley and Catherine his Wife , Garret Cavenagh and Honor his Wife , were indicted for that they not having the Fear of God, &c. nor weighing the Duty of their Allegiance, but being moved, &c. after the 29th of September, 1742, to wit, on the 1st of December, in the 16th Year of his Majesty's Reign, craftily, &c. feloniously and treacherously did file, and with certain Materials, producing the Colour of Silver, did wash and colour two Pieces of Brass Money of this Kingdom, called Farthings, with Intent to make each of them resemble and pass for a Piece of lawful Coin of this Kingdom called a Sixpence. And the Indictment further charged them with altering the Impression on each Side of two Farthings, with the like Intent. And the Indictment did likewise set forth, that they on the said first Day of December, did file and wash two Farthings, with Intent as before: And this was laid to be against the Duty of their Allegiance, the Peace of the King, and the Form of the Statute.

5. Patrick Kelley , 50 Years of Age, was born at Connaught of mean Parents, who taught him to read and write a little, but he had forgot all; was of no Trade, but a Labourer at Home, as he had been also in England . He came to London with his Family some Years ago, and he provided for them by working about the River, going on Errands as a Porter , or any Way he could honestly earn a Penny under the Masons, Bricklayers, Carpenters, &c. and by such Means he got good Bread for them. His Wife had the sad Misfortune to be under the same Sentence of High-Treason with him, but by his Majesty's most gracious Lenity was ordered to be transported for Life. He had a Daughter five or six Years old, whom a Countrywoman of theirs brought to Newgate sometimes to visit her Father and Mother; at the Sight of the Child they wept, and were very much disturbed, and Catherine Kelley telling the Child she was to be burned, the young Girl cried most bitterly. Kelley and his Wife kept a House for Lodgers , generally of their own Country, and People of like Character with themselves. He denied the Indictment as given in Evidence against him, but could not say he was altogether innocent, and knew nothing of such villainous Practices. Untill this Crime was discovered, a Gentleman of the other End of the Town declared he was a Man

of a very good, honest Character, which was also confirmed by some others. An honest Woman keeps his Daughter, and says, she will not part with her, and the other two younger Children are either put out to Nurses, or into the Workhouse: He was very bigotted to the Romish Way , but without any Prejudice against the Church of England. He always attended in Chapel, and was attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, excepting when a Gentleman of their own Persuasion came and visited them privately: However he did not think himself bound to make Confession to a Clergyman of our Church. He believed in Christ, declared he repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all Men.

6. Garret or Gerard Cavenagh , convicted of the same Crime with the above Kelley, was 40 Years of Age, born at Dublin of mean Parents, and had indifferent Education; when of Age he served his Time honestly to a Blacksmith in the said City, and then followed and lived by his Business, and married a Wife , the unfortunate Honor Cavenagh , who was involv'd in the same Crime with her Husband, and was to have suffered for it, but her Sentence of being burnt, was by his Majesty's Clemency changed into Transportation for Life. Some Years ago he came to London with his Wife and Family, and not having much to do, and thinking to better his State, he resolved upon a very bad Means, which was that of counterfeiting, diminishing, or altering the King's Coin, a very dangerous and disgraceful course, which brought all of them into utter Ruin and Desolation. Accordingly he was tried, convicted, and cast for making Shillings of Half-pennies, and Sixpences of Farthings; a Thing as one would think impossible, yet this was what a Man and Woman, Graham and Laycock, of their own Country, and the chief Evidences against them, did publickly move in Court, and shew after what Manner it was done; and declared withal, that they did so to save themselves from the same fatal and dreadful Sentence their Associates underwent; however these two Witnesses were very impudent Creatures. Garret denied the coining of Money, but said his Wife saw them work, and assisted in their indirect Practices, and she, to save the Husband, was desirous and willing to take the whole Blame upon herself, and owned she was concerned with these vile Creatures, in working and altering the Halfpence and Farthings. He was a robust Fellow, very wilely and extravagant, and a great Fighter, and would go out to work at the Blacksmith's Trade in the Day Time, and then coming Home at 8, 9, 10 o'Clock at Night, he with his Companions would ply hard at the altering or counterfeiting the Coin, and as the two Evidences, Graham and Laycock declared, they gained a pretty deal of Money that Way, commonly making five Pounds, or five Guineas a Week in that unlawful Manner.

DURING Part of the Time they were under Sentence, Garret and his Wife Honor were at Variance, and did not speak to one another: I asked her the Reason why there was any Difference between them? She said, Garret was of a most fiery passionate Temper, and angry with her because she did not make her Information good against the Evidences and others, who were also Partners with them, for she did first inform against several, but neglected to make the Information good in due Time, and then Graham and Laycock went to Mr. North, Sollicitor of the Mint, and plainly proved the Indictment against Garret Cavenagh and his Wife Honor , and Patrick Kelley and his Wife Catherine , which two Women were own Sisters both by Father and Mother, and the two Men Brothers-in-Law. The Women had the good Fortune to escape an ignominious Death; but the two Brothers by Affinity and Villainy were ordered for Execution. Garret had two Sons, the one 9 and the other 10 Years old, who were put into the Parish-School, and taken care of that Way: He knew and practiced but little of Religion, but what he professed was strict Popery , as

many of the inferior Sort in the Kingdom of Ireland are. He used to beat his Wife unmercifully, and was cruel to her even under the Sentence of Death, so that for a good while she was afraid to be in his Presence. Hereupon, I advised them to Peace and Unity, to be fervent in Prayer to Almighty God to guide them, and to forget all Animosities. After the Dead-Warrant came down, however, they appeared friendly and at Peace together, and Catherine came to Chapple with her Husband, untill the Day of his Execution, when they parted with sad and doleful Hearts. * Garret Cavenagh declared he believed in Christ our Saviour, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

Bryan Cooley was indicted for assaulting Joseph Emmerton on the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a Cane with an Ivory Head, Value 5 s. January 2.

7. Bryan Cooley , 50 Years of Age, born in the City of Meath , of mean Parents, had little or no Education; when of Age, he was not put to any Trade, but did Country-work , and liv'd in that way honestly for some Time; then he married a Woman by whom he had several Children, four of them now living, to his great Misfortune: Nine or ten Years ago, he came hither with his Wife, but she left him, and they travelled to and fro between the two Kingdoms, as it suited their Convenience, being of a roving and wavering Disposition, never settling to any thing whatever: Sometimes he was a Labourer to Masons, Carpenters, &c. or wrought at the River-side , was a Porter upon Occasions, and did any thing lawful to gain a Penny in an honest way; by such means, and by making of Hay, and Reaping in the Time of Harvest , he had good Bread, and might have liv'd very well with his Wife and Family, but what Evil Spirit possest him to molest Mr. Emmerton in the open Street in the Evening of the second of January last, between Ten and Eleven at Night, cannot well be imagined; especially, since every one gave him a good Character before this Fact, and he had the Reputation of an honest Man that wrong'd nobody, at least to any Man's Knowledge, as I was informed by a Gentleman of that End of the Town. He denied also, that any Person was with him, when the Scuffle happened, though the Evidence swore to a Woman who went off, and also to a Man, and some others, who began to quarrel; but Mr. York, who by Providence came by in the midst of the Fray, being resolute, and shoving the Prisoner into the Passage of an Alehouse, there kept him, and had him secured, otherwise, he said, he believed they would have made a Rescue.

Cooley owned his being nigh Temple-bar when Mr. Emmerton was abused and robb'd, only said in general he did not do it, and when I upbraided him with it, he spoke Surly, and was not willing to Confess any more, neither of this, or any other Robberies and Thefts; and as for pushing down Mr. Emmerton, and dragging him six or seven Foot upon his Back, he would not own it, altho' Mr. York wrench'd the Cane with Difficulty out of his Hand, and immediately after this, he was taken and secured. In Effect, he was a very miserable, poor Man, and No-body came after him, insomuch, that he seem'd to be a great Object of Compassion.

* Garret Cavenagh was tried at the Old-Bailey in the Mayoralty of DANIEL LAMBERT , Esq ; 1741, for assaulting Elizabeth , the Wife of Roger Conner , on the King's Highway, putting her in Fear, and taking from her, a Cloth-Pocket, Value 1 d. one Guinea, and three Shillings one Penny in Money, and Acquitted. See Sessions-Book No. II. for the said Year.

JUST at this Juncture, his Wife with four Children, came from Ireland to live with her Husband, knowing nothing of all the Misfortunes befallen him, the came to London on Tuesday, the 22d of March, and instead of finding him at his Lodgings, the poor Woman was informed he was in Newgate , under Sentence of Death, a shocking instance of Misery and Misfortune; She came to ask for, or to see him every Day, and it was Grevious to behold so miserable a Spectacle. He did not seem so Wicked as many of them; He was a bigotted Romanist , but declared he repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all Men.

James Roberts , of St. Ann, Westminster , was indicted for assaulting Thomas Bell , on the King's Highway, putting him in Fear, &c. and taking from him a Leather-bag, value 10 s. one Dozen of four pronged Silver Forks, value 10 l. four pair of Silver Snuffers, value 5 l. two Silver Snuffer-pans, value 5 l. and a piece of Copper, value 3 s. the Goods of John Neville and Ann Craig , January 28.

8. James Roberts , 40 Years of Age, born at a Country Town in Devonshire , of honest Parents, who gave him good Education at School, so as to be able to Read, Write, and cast Accompts, fit for Business, he was also tolerably instructed in Religious Principles, when of Age; he served his Time honestly to a Bricklayer , and then followed that way of Life, for himself some Time, and doing well, married a Neighbours Daughter, by whom he had some Children, one of whom a young Man of 18 or 19 Years of Age, is now living. He declared that whilst he was in the Country he always liv'd Honestly, but thinking to better his Condition in Town, some Years ago he came to London , with his Family, where not having constant Business at his Trade, and being a lusty strong Man, he turned a Chairman , and he with another, serv'd an old Lady of great Quality, having Sufficient to maintain himself and Family according to his Station; and he always had a good Character, as some Persons also gave him upon his Trial, but his great Misfortune was to take up with a Servant-maid in Town, two or three Years ago, with whom he kept Company, and the past for his Wife, in another part of the Town, he living with his true Wife near St. James's , where his Business was, whilst the other pretended Wife liv'd towards Goodman's-Fields , and he used to go two or three times a Week and lodge with her, and to support this Extravagant manner of Life, was the occasion of his having Recourse to irregular, wicked Courses.

HE said he found the Goods mentioned in the Indictment, in Bruton's Meuse, as he was going Home from his Business of a Chairman. I told him no-body could believe him, which he owned to be true, but yet constantly affirm'd it was so, adding that he could not help it, if People would not not believe the Truth. The Goods indeed were all found by his Direction, they having been committed to the care of that Person whom he called his Wife, and all of them, except a Fork or two, he offered for Sale to a Goldsmith, (which was the occasion of his being apprehended,) being sewed up in some Woman's Cloaths.

IN Effect, circular Bills having been sent, as usual, among the Trade, giving an Account of the Particulars, and desiring whoever offered them to Sell or Pawn, might be stopt, he could not possibly avoid being taken into Custody, the Moment he tendered them to Sale, unless he had offered them to one as dishonest as himself, of which there are but too many, even amongst those of that Business. Nor was it Reasonable for him to hope to escape Punishment, where it only for his Barbarous usage of the Boy, from whom the Goods were taken, whom he wounded both in the Fore and Hind part of his Head, knocking him down, and leaving him for Dead, insomuch that he was not well recovered, when he appeared to give Evidence against Roberts in Court: Accordingly he was soon Convicted, (the lame Excuse he trumpt up, of finding the

Plate, being such as no-body could believe) and Sentenced to suffer as for a Street Robbery. Nevertheless could not be persuaded to Confess the Fact, as Sworn against him, perhaps being unwilling to acknowledge it, because of his barbarous Usage of the poor Lad.

MOST of the time he was under Sentence, he was confined to his Cell, by Reason of his Sickness, upon which I visited him there Daily, and he professed Repentance for his mispent Life, but his persisting in refusing to Confess, makes his Sincerity therein very Questionable. His true Wife coming to see him, some Time before he Died, he owned she was the only one, to whom he was lawfully Married; She was very poor and miserable, but yet brought what little she could to help support him under his terrible Misfortune; nor did the Woman, with whom he kept Company, towards Goodman's-fields , forsake him in his Extremity, though such sort of People seldom stick to a Man when under Adversity. In Effect, she came likewise to Visit him, with a New-born Baba, which she had had by him, and of which she had lain in but a little before; however he declared he was never Married to her, and she had passed for his Wife, at that End of the Town. It seems Roberts had had a Son, by his real Wife, who was grown a lusty Lad, and she not knowing what was become of him, she suspected that her Husband, had Sold him; accordingly she wrote me a Letter upon that Subject, which I shew'd to Roberts, and he never wou'd return it to me again; however I had taken a Copy of it, and it was exactly as follows, in her own Style, and Spelling:

SIR,

I Am heartily sory to trouble you with these lines, as I was a thursday to see my unfortunate husband which would not see nor speak to me, I pray God to be his comfort and forgive him; he charged me by being instrumental to his deth, so far from that cauld my life make retalation I would lay it down for him; indeed Sir I did say to the Gentleman where the fork was ofer'd, Sir by chance he might find this plate for once, he found the case of a gold watch and it was advertisd, and I my Self carried it home and 3 guineas reward not thinking it had been talk'd of and my husband to deny the reward; tis true he may be and is in a pashion by reson I resist agenst his whore but when he is dead and gone I will stick close to her; pray Sir be pleas'd to use the best of your admonition I do know his Stubborn heart Sir he was the best of husbonds till one Sarah Dredge , the first wife of Richard Dredge , now of St. James's , she being long Since dead, set him on to cut my throat which he attempted three times in a month and ever Since that he ever kept to whores and for this wicked creature, he had now, she is guilty of all things in life, having had a base child by a black, and having brought him to this fatal place, I pray to have the letter from my child, to satisfy me and him from the Scandal of the world, I too much fear he have made away with him, and his whore have used him barbrous, I was 22 weeks in a jail for beating that creature, my prayers for him shall not be wanting from the unfortunate wife of James Roberts , chairman .

ANN ROBERTS .

directed thus

For the ordnery of newgate.

THIS Letter speaks of a Letter from their Son; the Wife fear'd Roberts had Sold him, but Margaret, who had a Child by him lately, sent up a Letter, by a Woman who had the new-born Child in her Arms, and she show'd it me; it was from that Son, of whose Welfare she was dubious, and was dated from Gravesend, where at that Time, which was about Christmas, he lodged, and it gave an Account that he was to go to the East-Indies, in the Duke, India-man, having sold himself to the Company for four Years; and among other Things, he remembers his Love therein to Margaret, who past for his Father's Wife, and is the Person with whom he lived towards Goodman's-Fields; this vindicates that Woman from barbarous Usage of the young Man: He

directs the Letter to his Father, James Roberts , Chairman , who said he knew not what was become of the Lad, untill he received this Letter, written with his own Hand.

HE still peremptorily insisted that he found the Bag with the Plate in it, and that he was not the Person who knock'd down and almost murder'd the Boy; but this is no way probable; however, he was unwilling to confess much, only that he was very drunk, and too much addicted to Women. He was desirous of the blessed Sacrament, and took it in Woodstreet-Compter , as well as several Times while under Sentence, after which, he behaved submissively and decently, professed his Belief in Christ, our only Saviour, and declared he repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

James Smith , of St. James, Clerkenwell , was indicted for breaking open and entering the Dwelling-House of Ann Dobney , about the Hour of seven in the Night, and stealing 1 Silk Gown, Value 20 s. 1 Cloth Mantelet, Value 5 s. 1 Piece of Linnen Cloth, Value 1 l. the Goods of Ann Dobney ; 2 red Damask Skirts, Value 12 s. 2 quilted Coats, Value 8 s. and other Things, the Goods of John Knell , Feb. 1.

9. James Smith , above 30 Years of Age, was born in St. Luke's Parish , of honest mean Parents, but had little or no Education at School, and what he had learned there he had almost forgot, minding nothing of Religion or his Soul's Concern. He was of a Family of Needlemakers from Worcestershire , where there are a great many of that Trade, and James served out his Time, as he said, honestly to the same Business, and when out of his Time, he followed his Trade for himself, and had good Bread, and a fair Character. He then married a Wife, by whom he had several Children, three or four of whom are now living, his Wife being so laely brought to Bed, that the Minister of the Parish baptized the Child while he was under Sentence, as he did also another Child of theirs, two Years and a half old, at James Smith 's Desire. As to this last Child, Smith said, that he and his Wife, when it was about three or four Weeks old, went to have it christened, but engaging in none of the best of Company, they got both of them so fuddled, that neither Smith nor his Wife could tell whether the Child was baptized or not; wherefore he earnestly entreated the Reverend Clergyman to baptize this Child also, upon Supposition of its not having been done before, which was done accordingly. Smith humbly begged Pardon of God for so scandalous a Mistake. He was likewise a Silver-Thread-Spinner , and by these two Trades he might have had good Bread and Provision for himself, his Wife, and Family; but Smith's Misfortune was to join with the vilest of Company, and this was his compleat Ruin: They brought him to a constant Habit of Drinking, Idleness, Gaming, Cursing and Swearing, &c. so that he became one of the compleat wickedest Fellows about the Town, neglecting all Religion, never going to Church, and despising every Thing that is good, or might contribute to the Benefit of his Soul, which he no more minded, than if he had been an irrational Creature; and as he thus neglected all the Means of other Knowledge, so he was in particular grosly ignorant of Religious Principles, wherefore he was therein instructed by me as the Time allowed, but he was of such a vicious Propensity, and so dull of Apprehension, that notwithstanding all the Misery he endured, he took too little Notice of such Instructions and Exhortations, inclining to prattle and talk with any one who sate next him, and for this I was often obliged to reprove him, and shew the evil Consequence of so doing. He was long sick, and I visited him frequently, when he declared his sincere Repentance; at other Times he constantly came to Chapel, and would sometimes seem attentive to Prayers and Exhortations, behaving indifferently well. However upon the whole, he was a very wicked young Man, and one of

those pernicious Fellows they call Gamblers; two Gangs of whom, as he said, there are in St. Luke's Parish , and no more, as he knows of, are in Town. These are a Set of Rogues who frequent the Fields next to Old-street Church , if any Countryman, unacquainted with their Tricks, pass by, they decoy him into their Company, in order to defraud or rob him of his Money. A Reverend Clergyman was one Day walking that Way, and seeing a Countryman likely to have fallen into their Snare, intended to have warn'd him to avoid their Conversation; however the Man past and shunn'd them of his own Accord. This Clergyman visiting Smith under Sentence, and telling him of this Passage, Smith advised him not to do any Thing displeasing to them, for if at that Time they had suspected his advising the Countryman to shun them, they were so profoundly wicked, that he would have been in Danger of being ston'd to Death with Brickbats, for they regarded not any Person of what Station soever, without Exception. He acknowledged he believed in Christ, repented of his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

N. B. James Smith confessed himself to have been concerned with most of the Gamblers in Town, and earnestly desired that the following Lines might be published in the Dying-Speech, in order to discover their Frauds and Tricks, that unwary People may be the better able to avoid them.

THEIR common Places of Resort are Stepney-Fields , Deptford , the Turpentine-house at Wood's-Close , Black-Mary's-Hole , Pancras , and the like; to each Place they generally come once in five Days, but oftener (supposing that they have committed no Cheat for which they are obliged to keep away.) When upon a Cheat they are sought for, their Custom is to send one or more of the Gang, to know whether People have been to enquire after them, and if they find they are all safe, then they return with the Barrow, which, in a cant Word, they call a Coach.

THE Method they take in decoying young People, is this: They go out in Gangs, and when they come near the Place of Rendezvous, they part and divide themselves, and very often walk singly, and looking for their Prey, apply to the first Person (if he looks any Way like for their Purpose) they meet, asking some Question about the Murder of a Man, the hanging of another, the committing of a Robbery, till they can lead the poor Creature to the Slaughter.

WHEN they meet with a Person they think will do, they ask him much such Questions, Whether he has not heard of a Man being shot by a Highwayman, in such a Road? The other saying, No, the Gambler makes Answer, but I'm going to see him, and if you'll walk this Way, you shall be satisfied. This Way is always the way to the Barrow, where being come, the Gentleman Gambler asks the Barrow-Man, whether that is not the ready way to see the dead Body? Who being in the Secret makes Answer, The Body, Sir, is no longer there, it has been carried away this half Hour, or what Time he pleases to mention. To play the Game, there stands near the Barrow-Man, a Fellow whose Hat is full of Oranges, pretending that he has won them all for a Penny; upon which the Gambler gives a Challenge to the Barrow-Man, to engage the young Stranger to go his Halfs, whom he is sure to make win, in order to egg him on, and then he is not left till they strip him, not only of his Money, but of Watch, Rings, and Shoe Buckles, if Silver, and of every Thing valuable.

THE Cheat consists in the Dice, for if they are to stake at the Dice bringing up the Number 21, at 3 different Throws, they are sure to bring up no more than 17; so if you are to fling for 17, they are sure the Dice will

reckon up 27; whatever they Bet, they have Dice for the Purpose, which they manage in this Manner: The Barrow-Man, under Pretence of being displeased, snatches up the Dice, and bids the young Fellow to go about his Business, that he will not let them play any longer; upon which the Gambler seems to humour the Barrow-Man, offering him Money, who seems to comply, flings down that Pair of Dice which is to go according to their Number, and the Dice being so effectual to their roguish Design, is because they load them. In short, Smith said, that they were a Set of very infamous Men, that they are more to be dreaded than Highwaymen, for they not only pick Men's Pockets, but very frequently reduce them to the greatest Poverty, to the Shame and Despair of those that are ruin'd, and the Grief and Sorrow of their Relations. Smith said he knew many Gentlemen's Servants utterly ruin'd by their Barrows, and that have, to support themselves, had Recourse to unlawful Means in the Family they liv'd with. In short, he said it was a Pity the Punishment was not adequate to the Crime, for tho' it goes under the Notion of Gaming, yet it is a Contrivance of the greatest Roguery, and of a most dangerous Consequence.

Stephen Wright , alias John Brown , of St. Bartholomew's behind the Exchange , was indicted for assaulting John Belchier , Surgeon , in his Dwelling-House, putting him in Bodily Fear and Danger of his Life, and taking a Gold Watch, Value 8 l. and 6 Guineas in Money, the Goods, Chattels, and Money of the said John Belchier , from the Person, and against the Will of the said John Belchier . January the 21st.

10. Stephen Wright , whose true Name, as was given out was Brown , 21 Years old, was born at or about Liverpool ; but when he was a Child of 2 or 3 Years of Age, his Father and Family, with young Stephen, removed to Ireland , and settled in Dublin , where the Old Gentleman was a Merchant of Substance and good Credit: He educated his Son a Gentleman, and at proper Schools, so that he understood English, Latin, and Greek, and could write tollerable, and was well versed in Arithmetic, &c. As to Religion he was pretty well instructed in the Romish Way , and seemed to be a great Zealot in that Profession. When of Age his Father bound him Apprentice to an eminent Surgeon in Dublin , to whom he served his Time, as he said, honestly and faithfully, and when he quitted his Master, he intended to have gone to France , in order to the compleating his Education in Surgery and Physic, and for that End his Parents gave sufficient Plenty of Money, to keep him a Year or two at Paris . Unhappily for Stephen he chose to go by the Way of London , and to acquaint himself a little with England , the Place of his Nativity, whence his Forefathers came; tho', as he said, his Father had a pretty good Estate, besides a handsome Sum of Money in Ireland , to which he was Heir, but by his desperate Misbehaviour, he has effectually prevented his inheriting either one or the other. For some Time after his coming to England, he served a Surgeon in the Country in Surrey , and might have done well, had he kept to his Business and been industrious, as he had good Education, and seemed capable of his Profession. His Friends had advanced to him 180 l. to bear his Expences at the Colleges in Paris . But he not content with that, resolved to improve this Sum, tho' the Project he fell upon was wrong and foolish, and had no Success answerable to his Desire. In Effect he went to a Gaming-House in Covent-Garden , where in two or three Days, or at most a few Days, he lost the 180 l. designed to bear the Expence of his Travels, and then having no Money left, and not knowing what to do, but being destitute of the Grace of God, he resolved upon desperate Courses of Robbing.

ACCORDINGLY, on Tuesday the 18th of January, he went to the House of Mr. Belchier, at the back of the Exchange , pretending a Venereal Ailment, and desiring some

proper Remedies, promising five Guineas for a compleat Cure, and desiring the Medecines might be got ready against the next Evening, when he would call for them without fail, having Company then waiting for him. In Effect, he came again next Evening, about the same Time, and after some little Preamble, presenting a Pistol charg'd and couch'd, to Mr. Belcher's Breast, and told him very plainly, I want not to be cured, but your Money; Mr. Belcher was very much surpriz'd, and frighten'd, upon holding a cock'd Pistol to his Breast; however, he told him, as he had the Appearance of a Gentleman, he expected no such Treatment; but if he was in want, he would assist him with two Guineas, which Wright took; but then he demanded more, untill the Gentleman made it six, and not contented with that, demanded his Gold Watch.

MR. Belcher thought the Thief had too much already, yet, for fear of being shot by the desperate Robber, he deliver'd the Gold Watch also; but then, whilst Wright was endeavouring to pocket up the Gold Watch and six Guineas, Mr. Belcher observing the Robber not to be upon his Guard, rush'd in upon, and seized him, and got him down upon the Floor, holding him so fast, that he could not move his Arms; then he cried out to the Servants, and at the same time a Footman came in, and took not only that Pistol from him, but another charged Pistol out of his Pocket; as for the Gold Watch and Six Guineas, they were taken off the Floor, the Robber overcome, having dropt out of his Hands; this done, they secur'd and ask'd him, how he had the Impudence to commit such a villainous, barefac'd Robbery; he said it was nothing but absolute Necessity, and the greatest Want imaginable, being reduced to such Straits, that he cared not whether he lived or died. Accordingly he was committed to Newgate , tried, convicted, and executed for this Robbery. He boasted of his great Relations, both in England and Ireland; but his Behaviour, especially in this Affair, was neither like a Gentleman, nor a Man of common Sense and Reason. However attrocious his Crime was, he flatter'd himself with the Hopes of a Reprieve; but when he found himself disappointed, he seemed Indifferent, and very little concern'd about any thing, and 'tis to be fear'd, he died in the Gall of Bitterness and Bond of Iniquity: for after the Dead-Warrant came down to Newgate , he being in Chapel as formerly, when no Roman Priest was there, plyed all about him with idle Talk, which gave very great Offence to me and the Protestant Criminals, and I was obliged often to reprove them very sharply. He was a Bigot in the Papist Opinion, and endeavoured what he could, to pervert Others in the Cells, tho' it is to be hoped not with Success. In Chapel, he sometimes asked Questions, and was desirous of Disputing about Principals in Differance; the Authority of the Scriptures, the Translation of the Scriptures about Idolatry in the Church of Rome, which he denied. I told him, if they were not guilty of Idolatry in falling down to, and worshiping carved and painted Images, neither were the Heathens in Time of primitive Christianity, when their Philosophers made the same Apology the Papists do now in that Respect; and agreeable to the old Heathenish Priests and Philosophers, they worshipped Angels, and Great Men and Women, whom they make Demy-Gods, and to whom they erected Temples and Churches, as the Romans made the Pantheon in the City of Rome. I gave Mr. Wright, or Brown, answers sufficient for all his Objections; but he would not give Ear, and I did not think fit to insist too much, especially in a public Place, where a Minister of the Church of England speaks with Authority. He died a rigid Papist; he said he forgave all Men, and was in Peace with them.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Morning of the Execution, they all, (except those attended by a Roman Priest) received the Holy Sacrament, and devoutly join'd in the Prayers; after which, they were put into the several Carts, and in the following Order, were convey'd to the fatal Tree, viz.

IN the first Cart, were Michael Bewley , James Smith , and Thomas Dennis : In the second, were Stephen Wright , otherwise Brown , Bryan Cooley , and William Burnet : And in the third, were Lot Cavenagh , and James Roberts : And in the Hurdle, were drawn Patrick Kelly , and Garret Cavenagh for High-Treason.

IN this Manner were they convey'd through a vast Multitude of People to Tyburn . They seemed very devout, and joined heartily in the Prayers and singing of Psalms: though I was sometimes interrupted by a different Persuasion, praying loudly to the Saints. It is to be observed, that William Burnet (one of the unhappy Sufferers) who was of our Communion, and had communicated with us before, yet notwithstanding, on Friday the 8th of this Instant, a Priest going to him in the Cell before I went in, perswaded him to turn Roman . I asked him why he did so? His Answer to me was very saucy and Ill-mannerly; I reproved him very severely, but it had no Effect on him, being very stupid and illiterate.

MOST of them adher'd to their former Confessions, and said, they had no more to say, than what they had already told. Our Devotions being concluded by a Penitential Psalm, the Cart was drawn away, and they went off the Stage, crying out, God be merciful to us! Lord Jesus receive our Spirits!

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

An ACCOUNT of Lot Cavenagh .

IT is what the World generally expects from Persons in my unhappy Condition, that they should give some Account of themselves, and of their former mispent Lives, were it only to shew Mankind the Snares by which they have been drawn into such Wickedness, in order to their avoiding the same: Partly, therefore, in Compliance with this Custom, and partly because I think it a Duty incumbent upon myself, to make all the Atonement I can, by declaring, not only the Fact for which I am to suffer, but likewise whatever others I have been guilty of from my Youth upwards; both with Design to take Shame to myself for them, and to clear the Innocent, who may Chance to have been suspected, and even to be apprehended and prosecuted, for Crimes whereof I alone am guilty, and which have brought me to this ignominious and untimely End.

TO begin then: I am now about 27 Years old, and was born in Dublin , of very reputable Parents, who gave me a pretty good Education, had I but had the Grace to have apply'd it to a proper Use; but Repentance is now too late, at least for any Advantage it can be to me in this World. When my Parents thought me of a sufficient Age to go to School, they sent me to one Mr. Sheridan, an eminent Master in St. Mary's Parish , in the same City, where I continued orderly enough, till my Father had me bound Apprentice to one Mr. Croke, an Apothecary , likewise in the same City. I served this Master faithfully and justly about four Years, but unfortunately becoming then acquainted with some of the lewd Women with which that Town, as well as this, swarms too much, I never thought myself happy, but when I was in their Company, which I could not be, without neglecting my Master's Business but too frequently, as I accordingly did. This, however, might perhaps have been borne with, at least for some Time longer, had I not robbed my Master to support my Extravagance, and comply with the unreasonable Demands of those unreasonable and riotous Companions, whereof I now too late repent. My Master not only observing my Extravagance, and

disorderly Course of Life, which gave him but too much Room to suspect me of wronging him; but being likewise wearied out with my frequent lying out of his House, and apprehending something worse might be the Consequence thereof, at last turned me out of Door; upon which my Father was obliged to take me Home, and satisfy my Master for the remaining Part of my Time, that he might make no Noise about my ill Behaviour, to blast my Character.

I had not been long at my Father's, before I got acquainted with some young Fellows, whom by their Appearance I took to be Gentlemen, but whose real Business (as I found afterwards by woeful Experience) was to decay and inveigle away unwary young Lads, and sell them to Officers in the French Service; by which treasonable, base, and cruel Practices, they gained a plentyful Subsistence. Accordingly one Day, when we were together, they asked me, if I would not do them the Favour to let them have my Company to a Public House, about a Mile out of Town, where they were to have a noble Bowl of Punch, and be very merry. Little apprehending any ill Consequence would ensue from my Compliance, I readily accepted of their Proposal, and consented to go with them, as I accordingly did, but had soon sufficient Reason to remember, a Man can't be too cautious with whom he gets acquainted.

IN Effect, we were very merry, if Drinking, Singing, and Roaring, can be called real Mirth; in which Kind of jovial Doings we spent the Day, even till Ten at Night; but little did I think it would be my Lot to pay the Piper, as it proved soon afterwards. In the Midst of our Mirth, some young Lads, to the Number of six, dropt in at different Times, with Letters in their Hands, directed to some one of my new Acquaintance; and as each of these came in, he was kindly invited to sit down, and partake of the good Liquor, which he was far from refusing, little imagining, as I suppose, that after sweet Meat, there would come very sowre Sauce. However that be, about Ten at Night my kind and generous new Acquaintance, the pretended young Gentlemen abovementioned, who had given me the Invitation, arose all on a sudden, and drawing each of them a Cutlass he had by his Side, seized on the six poor young Lads and myself, and hurried us all to a Boat, which lay for that Purpose at the Water Side, just by the House where we had been drinking, and carried us directly on Board a Vessel that was lying ready to receive us, where we were clapt into the Hold, amongst above threescore more unfortunate young Wretches, who had been trapann'd on Board in the same Manner. This done, the Vessel hoisted Sail directly for France , nor were we suffered ever to see the Light more till we arrived at one of the Sea-Ports in that Kingdom, which, in all Probability, had been appointed for the Place of Rendezvous, where we were to be delivered, since we there found divers French Officers waiting for our Arrival, who allowed my pretended Gentlemen Companions a certain Sum a-piece, for each of us poor deluded and unwary young Creatures. I mention this, to caution all my unthinking young Countrymen, how they accept of an Invitation to any House near the Sea-side, from any Persons of whose Honesty they are not perfectly well assured.

AS I happen'd to be very gayly dressed, one of the Officers took particular Notice of me, and said, I should belong to his Regiment, and not be upon the Footing of a common Soldier, but a Cadet , so I very readily went with him. However I had not been long in the Regiment, before my Uncle, who was a Captain in the French Service, happened to hear that I belong'd to a Captain who was his particular Acquaintance. Accordingly one Day he paid my Captain a Visit, and asked him if he had not a young Man in his Company whose Name was Cavenagh: Yes, I have, answered the Captain, but why do you ask? Because, replied my Uncle, he is my Nephew, if it is the same, as I believe it is. Upon which the Captain sent for me, and immediately my Uncle knew me, and gave another young Man in my Room: I went then into the Company that belong'd to my Uncle; but had not been there a Month, before I thought of some Stratagem to get away, for I had no Notion of a Soldier's Life, especially in the French Service: I judged, however, it would be a difficult Matter to get away without any Money in my Pocket, which put me upon contriving how I might supply myself; nor was I long at a Loss, for I having seen my Uncle put his Money often in a little Beauroe, which I thought I could easily break open, I got a little Chissel, and when he was in Company one Day at a Tavern, with some of his Brother Officers, I took the Opportunity, broke open the Beauroe

took out of it seven Guineas, and made the best of my Way to Paris , and so to Calais .

WHEN I came to Calais , I went to a Public House, which was kept by one of my Countrymen, and had not been long there, but in comes three or four Officers in the French Service, waiting to go for Paris. On seeing me alone, they asked me to join Company, which I did, and in Conversation enquired whither I was going? I answered, to Paris , to see my Uncle, who was Captain of such a Regiment: They said they knew him very well, and they should be glad of my Company. I told them I should take it as a Favour if they would accept of mine; but informed them at the same Time, I was afraid I should be debarr'd the Pleasure of their Company, for I was short of Money, and was obliged to stay till my Uncle remitted me some to bear my Expences. Pray, Sir, said one of the Officers, don't let that trouble you, for if you want any, you shall have some of me: with that he puts his Hand in his Pocket, and lent me five Guineas, which I told him my Uncle would pay him faithfully, with Thanks; though at the same Time I knew I told him a Lie. Sometime after I had received the Money, I pretended I had Occasion to go out to make Water, and as soon as I got out of the House, I took Shipping for Dover , where I soon arrived in Safety, and from thence proceeded on my Way to London , that great and famous City, which may truly be said, like the Sea and the Gallows, to refuse none.

ABOUT fourteen or fifteen Years ago, just as I came from France , between West Chester and Park Gate , I stopped a Man which was driving a Cart (with a Pistol in my Hand, which Pistol I bought at West-Chester) which was loaded with several Sorts of Goods, just came from Ireland : I order'd the Man that drove the Cart, to take out about six or seven Boxes, and made him break them open; I took out of the Boxes, a silver Pint Mug, half a dozen of Spoons, a silver Watch, and a new silk Gown; after I took what I thought proper, I order'd him to put the Boxes into his Cart, and drive on as fast as possible, if not, I would come after him and shoot him thro' the Head. I made the best of my Way cross the Country, and so to Liverpoole ; the silk Gown I sold at Liverpoole, to the Woman of the House where I lodg'd, for 30 s.

AFTER this Robbery, I went out about seven or eight o'Clock one Evening, about half a Mile from Liverpoole , where I stopt two Market-Women, who had just come from Market on Horseback; I made up to them with my Pistol in my Hand; they were both of them very much frighten'd; I bid them not be any ways afraid, for I would not hurt them, I only wanted their Money; accordingly I took from them four Pounds in Silver, and four Gold Rings. After I had robbed them, I went directly to Liverpoole , and with the Money I took from them, I bought me a new Suit of Cloaths, and sold my old ones to the Person I bought my new ones off.

AFTER I had committed this Robbery, I staid at my Lodgings in Strand street , at the Sign of the Bottle in Liverpoole , about two Days, and then I made the best of my Way for London ; and went to lodge at one Mr. Leadbeater's, at the George in Broad St. Giles's . My Money being almost gone, I turn'd out one Evening about seven o'Clock, and went to Lamb's Conduit Fields ; I had not walk'd long, before I stopt a Gentleman and his Wife, with a little Girl; I presented a Pistol to the Gentleman's Breast, and bid him deliver his Money, or I would blow his Brains out; I took from him three Guineas in Gold, fifteen Shillings in Silver, and his Watch; from the Gentlewoman I took from her, a Purse with five Guineas in it, two plain Gold Rings,

Advertisement.

THERE being so many Facts and Particulars given by these unhappy Convicts, as render it impracticable to bring the same within the usual Compass, and yet are so necessary to be known; we are oblig'd to refer our READERS to the Second Part of this Account, which will be published on Friday next, wherein the Reader will find a full Relation of the several Facts, and remarkable Transactions of the Life of LOT CAVENAGH . As also, a very particular ACCOUNT of Mr. STEPHEN WRIGHT , otherwise JOHN BROWN , (the last being his right Name) for robbing Mr. Belcher the Surgeon, at his own House near the Royal Exchange. Likewise an Account of all the Robberies committed by Michael Bewley .

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, ON TUESDAY the 12th of April, 1743.

BEING THE SECOND EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble . Robert Willimot , Esquire .

LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

Number II. PART II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XLIII.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AND one Diamond one, and a Silverrim'd Tortoiseshel Snuff-box; after I had robbed them, I bid them go on, and at the same Time ordered them not to look back, if they did, I would shoot them. I went directly to my Lodgings, and being flush'd with my Success, I ordered a very good Supper, and sent for one of my Girls (for I had no less than Six) to sup with me, where we sat up all Night a drinking.

AFTER this Robbery, I staid a Day or two in Town, and then made the best of my Way for Liverpoole again; when I came there, I staid but one Night, and then I cross'd the Water the next Morning to go to Park-Gate ; when I got to the Passage-House, I met accidentally with one Mr. Kelly, a Dancing-master, who liv'd at Liverpoole, a Countryman of mine; we sat down together, and drank our Glass pretty freely: In common Conversation, he told me, he was going to see some Friends at Winchester, and said, he should be back in about 8 Days; he borrowed a Horse of the Man that kept the Passage-House, his Son learning to Dance with him; while we were dtinking together, it rained very hard, I at that Time having a Great-Coat on, he said, he should be very much obliged to me, if I would lend it him; which I accordingly did, and at the same time, gave me a Letter to go to his House at Liverpoole, to take one of his in the Room of mine, till he return'd that which he borrow'd; he made the Appearance of a Gentleman, I thought his Coat might be better than mine, so was very well satisfied. I cross'd the Water for Liverpoole , in hopes of getting the Great-Coat; but when I came to his House, his Wife told me, that her Husband had no Great-Coat; I was somewhat surpriz'd at her Answer; I went to a Public House not far from where he liv'd, and the People of the House informed me he was gone off for Debt, so I gave over the Great-Coat for Loss. I walk'd out that Evening about eight o'Clock, a Mile from the Town, and there I stopt a Gentleman, and robbed him of five Guineas in Gold, a Seal Ring with an Eagle on it, and some Silver he had, but return'd him the Silver again. After I had robbed him, I traveled all Night towards London ; I got about twenty-seven Miles by six o'Clock the next Morning I being both dry, hungry, and very cold, being Winter time, I made the best of my Way to the first Public-House I found upon the Road; when I came there, I call'd for a Quartern of Brandy, and desired the Landlord of the House to get me some Eggs and Bacon for my Breakfast, which accordingly he did. I staid there about two Hours, and setting in a Room which look'd into the Road, I saw Mr. Kelly the Dancing-Master, riding by with my Great Coat on his Back. Immediately I ran out of the House, and laid hold of his Horses Bridle, and swore if he made any Resistance, I would shoot him through the Head.

He was very much surprized to see me get so far, having so lately left me. I led him and his Horse to the Public-House were I was, and made him alight and come in; and when he was in, I asked him, how he could be such a Villain to serve me so? (especially his Countryman) to make him go to Liverpoole for his Great-Coat, when he knew at the same time he had none; and likewise told him, that he was informed he was obliged to leave the Town, being so much in Debt. At the same time I took a Paper out of my Pocket, and told him I had an Order to stop him; upon which, he begg'd of me to be pacified, and he would make me any Satisfaction I desir'd: I then demanded of him four Guineas, my Coat, his Horse, Boots and Spurs: The Horse (says he) you know is not my own, I borrow'd it of the Man at the Passage-House, which I desire you will return to him; which Horse I rode to Holyhead , and there I sold him for three Guineas, Bridle and Saddle. The next Day I took Shipping for Ireland ; when I came there, I went directly to my Father, who received me with all the render Affections of a Parent: I staid with him about half a Year, and then I came to London .

I had not been long in Town, before my Money was almost gone, wherefore I was forced to set my Wits to work to get more, and not being able to think of any Thing better than to levy Contributions upon the Public, soon determined to enter upon that Course of Life, which suited but too well with my loose Inclinations. By this Time I had got acquainted with some Companions as wicked as myself, amongst whom, were James Lawler , and James Leonard ; wit these two, therefore, who were very fit for my Purpose, I agreed to go a robbing; accordingly, on the 24th of December, 1737, between ten and eleven at Night, having first drank a Pint of Gin between us, in order to put us in Heart, and having resolved amongst ourselves, that, since we wanted Money, Money we would have, if any was to be had aboveground; we turned out, and coming down Drury-Lane , over-against the Coal-Yard , happened to meet Mr. Lines , who was going along, not apprehending any Danger, with a Gun a-cross his Shoulder. D - mn you, said Lawler, going up to him, and striking him with the Stock of a Pistol he had in his Hand, What Business has such Fellows as you with a Gun? Mr. Lines, however, did not fall down with the Stroke, but immediately seized hold on him at the same Time, and prevented his making any Resistance; Leonard being ordered to stand on the other Side of the Way, and cry Tommy, Tommy, to give us Notice if any one was coming. From this Gentleman, we took between five and six Pounds, together with his Gun, Hat and Wig, and were proceeding to rifle him farther, but that Lawler calling out Tommy, to apprize us somebody was coming, we were obliged to desist, and make off with what we had got, to our respective Lodgings. Next Morning Lawler carried the Hat and Wig to a Pawnbroker's, and sold the Gun outright, and we divided the Spoil between us: There was also one Roland concerned in this Robbery, but he made his Escape after it was committed

AFTER this Exploit, one Day as I was going over Tower-Hill , I was press'd by a Press-Gang , and carried on Board the Colchester, from which I was turned over to the Newcastle, Captain Fox, and forced to serve before the Mast; but I had not continued long there, before I was made Surgeon's Mate ; in which Post I went to Lisbon , Gibraltar , and divers other Places; in short, I continued three Years at Sea, when being very ill, I was discharged from the Ship, and came to England , and when I got ashore, I wrote a Letter to my Father, to acquaint him with my ill State of Health, and how my Sickness had cost me what little Money I had got at Sea, upon which he was so kind as to remit me some.

AFTER that was gone, I began to think of returning to my old Way of Life to get more, so accordingly, in June last, I, William South , Samuel South , Michael Morgan , and another Person, stop'd a Hackney Coach about Ten o'Clock at Night, by Tottenham-Court Turnpike , wherein

Lot Cavenaugh was an Evidence in the Mayoralty of Micajah Perry , Esq ; against James Lawler , and James Leonard , for robbing one Mr. Lines, and they were both capitally Convicted, and executed for the same at Tyburn , on Wednesday, March 14, 1738.

was a Gentleman and three Ladies, from whom we took a Silver-rim'd Snuff-box, with a Mother of Pearl Lidd and Bottom, and the Figure of Neptune on the Lid, and about 15 s. in Silver, a reading Glass and a Cane, and then we all made off.

ANOTHER Night, in the same Road, we stopped a Gentleman's Coach, but when we came up to the Door of it, there was nobody in it; upon which we damn'd the Coachman for being disappointed, and bid him drive on.

ANOTHER Time, between Eleven and Twelve o'Clock, we stopped a Coach coming from Ranelagh's Gardens , wherein was a Gentleman and a Gentlewoman; we took from the Gentleman two Guineas, and two Gold Rings from the Gentlewoman, and then we bid the Coachman drive on, but says the Coachman, if any Body else should attack us, what must I say? Why, says I, you must say, you have spoke with the Captain. Very well, says the Coachman; Gentlemen, I will obey the Word of Command.

ONE Evening I rode out on my black Mare, and between Hammersmith and Turnham-Green I met with two Gentlemen, and rode up to them, and saluted them with the usual Compliment, at the same Time took hold of one of the Reins of their Horses Bridle, and presented my Pistol to the other. I demanded of them to alight, which accordingly they did: I took from them to the Amount of about fifteen Guineas between them, and a Watch from one of them. After I had robbed them, I cut their Horses Girts, and took their Saddles and Bridles off, and then whipt their Horses away some Distance from them, and rode directly towards Brompton Turnpike ; and just before I came to the Turnpike, two Fellows jumpt out of a Ditch, which startled my Mare that she threw me off; they laid hold of me before I could come at my Pistols, and in the mean Time put each of them a Pistol to my Breast; I was going to tell them, I was one of their Profession; D - n you, Sir, don't tell us what Profession you are off, Money we want, and Money we must have; upon which, they fell a searching me, and took 15 Guineas and a Watch, which Money and Watch I took from the two Gentlemen about half an Hour before they robb'd me; likewise they took forty Shillings and a Watch which did belong to me; then they changed Hats and Wigs with me; they took the Bridle and Saddle off of my Mare, and turn'd her loose; with some Difficulty I got her again in a Quarter of an Hour; I mounted her, and came directly to Town, and brought the Mare to the right Owner.

BEING tir'd of robbing with other Persons, I was resolved to do it after a more Gentlemanlike Manner; accordingly, I hir'd a Bay Mare, and made the best Way to Portsmouth ; when I came there, I staid a Day or two in Town before I did any Thing; but at last, my Money being almost gone, I turn'd out towards Post-Down Hill , not far from Portsmouth , where I had not rode long, before I spied two Gentlemen coming over the Down towards me; I rode up to them with my Pistol in my Hand, and bid them immediatly deliver their Money and Watches, with the usual Compliment of G - d d - n you stand, or else you are dead Men; I took from one of these Gentlemen, ten Guineas, his Watch, and ten Shillings in Silver; but upon his civilly desiring only the Silver again to bear his Charges to London, I returned it him: from the other Gentleman, I took two Guineas, his Watch, and sixteen Shillings in Silver; after I had done which, I rode a-cross the Country, to a little Village, and put up at a Public-House, where they knew what my Calling was, and then I and my Landlord refresh'd ourselves upon the Fruits of my Labour.

ABOUT a Week after this Robbery, I stop'd a Gentleman and his Servant near the same Place, where I committed the last Robbery: First I made the Gentleman dismount, and then I ordered the Servant to take the Money out of his Master's Pockets, which was four Guineas, and nine Shillings in Silver, and his Watch; then I demanded the Servants Money likewise, all the while setting on my Mare, with a Pistol in my Hand; the Servant pleaded very hard, and begged I would not rob him; for said he, you see what Station I am in; but I was deaf to his Intreaties, being resolved, like Death, to spare none, and accordingly insisted upon his delivering what he had, which was about ten Shillings, he having no Watch; at last, however, the poor Fellow continuing to beg very hard, I return'd him his Money back again. He had a Portmanteau behind him, however, which I made him cut open, and in it was a Suit of Cloaths, with half a dozen fine Holland Shirts, which I told him, were fit for my Use; upon which, I ordered him to give them to me, which he accordingly did, and I put them in my Pockets

belonging to my Great-coat. All the Time that I was robbing this Gentleman and his Servant, I commanded the Gentleman to stand at some Distance, and not too nigh his Servant; with which he readily complied; and when I had taken all I thought proper, I pulled out my Knife, and cut the Girths and Bridles of both Horses, and riding off towards Portsmouth , put up my Mare at a little House in the Town, which I had before used, and changed my Cloaths; this done, I went out, and who should I meet, but the very Gentleman who I had just robbed, and his Servant, entering the Town: He dismounted at Lambeth-Gate , and his Servant led the Horses to the Red-Lyon Inn , where they lodged. Next Day, about Three in the Afternoon, I and a young Man of my Acquaintance, went to the same Inn, and called for a Pint of Wine, where I again saw the same Gentleman, and heard him telling some of his Companions, that he and his Servant was robb'd within two Miles of the Town, by a single Highwayman, mounted on a Bay Mare, of the Things abovementioned, and at the same Time he was relating of the Robbery, I had one of the Shirts on my Back which I took from him. When he had done relating to his Friends the Particulars of this Robbery, one of them asked him, if he should know the Highwayman again, if ever he should meet him? Know him again, says he, I should know him from a Hundred, for I took particular Notice of him all the Time he was committing the Robbery; upon hearing him say so, I immediately call'd for to Pay, and I made the best of my Way out of the House, for fear of being taken, to my Lodgings, which I should not like.

ABOUT a Fortnight after, I stopp'd a Gentleman's Coach near the same Place, wherein was three Ladies and a Gentleman; I commanded the Coachman to get down from his Box, and walk off to some Distance, and in the mean Time, with my Pistol in my Hand, I stood by the Coach-side, for fear they should convey any Thing away: I took from the three Ladies two Mourning Rings, three Diamond Rings, and two plain Gold Rings, and three Purses, which contain'd about five Pounds; After I had robbed the Ladies, I demanded of the Gentleman his Money and Watch, which was four or five Guineas in Gold, and 4 or 5 Shillings in Silver, and his Gold Watch; then I ordered the Coachman to get on his Coach-box, and made him drive back upwards of a Quarter of a Mile, because they were going the same Road as I was, 'till I thought I was out of Danger. After this Robbery, I went to Plymouth , where my Wife lived, and dealt in Cloaths, which she used to sell to the Seamen when they came on Shore, where we both bore the Character of honest and industrious People; but in short, selling those Things was only a Blind to protect my Roguery; I staid about a Month with her, without going in Quest of any Booty; but after that, one Evening I told her I would go to London , in order to buy some Things proper for the Seamen against the Ships came in: She readily consented, so the next Morning I took my Bay Mare, and rode for the City of Exeter , instead of going to London. I put up my Mare at an Inn in that City, and there staid three Days before I attempted any thing; but the fourth Day I rode about three Miles from Exeter , where I stop'd (with the usual Compliment) a single Gentleman on Horseback; and took from him eleven Guineas and his Watch, which done, I made the best of my Way back to Exeter .

THE next Night I went again to the same Place, where I stopt two Butchers, who were going to Exeter-Market; I took from them about seven Pounds and a Watch; they desired I would return them some Silver to bear their Charges to that City; upon which I put my Hand into my Pocket, throw'd them three Half-Crowns, and bid them drink my Health, and then I rode off again for Exeter .

I staid at that City about a Month; and while I was there, carried one of my Watches

which was out of Order, to a Watchmaker's in the Town to have it mended; going one Evening to see if it was done, I found the Master of the Shop asleep by the Fire-side; and seeing in the Shop about twenty Watches hanging upon Peggs, amongst which was my own: I took this Opportunity whilst the Master was asleep, nobody else being there, to borrow about seven of the Watches (leaving my own behind) and put them in my Pocket, which done, I went directly Home to my Lodgings. The next Day I returned again to the Watch-maker's to see if my Watch was mended, and found the poor Man in a great deal of Trouble, as may well be imagined; he told me, he had been robb'd the Nigh before by some Villains, of seven Watches; but Sir, says he, they have not taken yours: Says I, seemingly with Concern for the Man's Loss, how did they rob you? Why, about eight o'Clock last Night, I was dozing by my Fire-side, they took that Opportunity; but little did he think he was telling the Story to the Thief. Well, says I, is my Watch done? Yes Sir, here it is; I asked him what he must have? he told me Half a Crown; accordingly I gave it him, and thought it very cheap, considering I had seven other Watches into the Bargain.

AFTER this I returned to Plymouth to my Wife, who thought I had been at London, and had bought those Watches (which I stole from the Watchmaker at Exeter) in order to sell them to some of the Seamen. As I liv'd very high, and went likewise very gay, I spent what I had got in a very short Time, which obliged me to turn out again. Accordingly I went about 2 Miles from Plymouth, where I stopt a Clergyman and his Servant, bidding them stand and deliver, or else I would blow their Brains out. The Parson was very much surprized at this rough Salutation, and begg'd of me to put by my Pistol, and he would give me his Money quietly, as he accordingly did, and it amounted to about 7 l. and his Watch. I then went to his Servant, and took from him but 5 s. which I returned to him again. This done, I went directly Home to Plymouth , and staid there about 2 Months, during all which Time I made no other Attempt. Then I came to London, and soon after Money began to run very low with me, so that I was obliged to take up my Old Trade; accordingly I set out for Hounslow , and between that and Brandford I met with a single Gentleman, whom I robb'd, and took from him 2 Guineas and a Half in Gold, 19 s. in Silver, and a Watch of the same Mettal. After I had committed this Robbery, I rode full Speed to Brandford , put up at the Red-Lyon Inn , and desired the Drawer to shew me a Room next the Road, in order to observe if the Gentleman whom I had attack'd, took the Road to London; but not seeing him come by, after I had waited some Time, I called for my Reckoning, mounted my Mare, and made the best of my Way to Town.

ONE Night I was walking along Southwark , in order to go to my Lodgings in George-street near St. George's-Fields (for at that Time I liv'd with my Fellow-Convict Cordelia Taylor ) I saw a Gentleman knocking at his Door, whereupon I went up to him, and held a Pistol to his Breast, and swore I wanted Money, and Money I must have: He put his Hand into his Pocket, and gave me a Guinea; but just as he gave it me, one of his Servants happened to open the Door; upon which he called out Highwayman! Stop Thief! The Watchmen being then at their Stands, and hearing the Out-cry, came running to his Assistance, whereupon I took to my Hells, and they after me; but being closely pursued just by St. Margaret's Hill , I turned about with my Pistol in my Hand, and swore the first Person that offered to lay his Hands on me, was a dead Man, upon which they all immediately dispersed themselves, and when I saw myself out of Danger, I fired my Pistol, and went directly Home to my aforesaid Lodging.

ABOUT a Week after this Robbery, I rode out towards Hammersmith , and met two

Butchers about 2 or 3 o'Clock in the Morning, going to Market; as it was so early, and they were in a bye Road, I rode up to them, and bid them stand, and at the same Time putting a Pistol to one of their Breast, swore if they did not immediately deliver their Money, I would shoot them thro' the Head; they did not seem inclin'd to resist, so I took from them both about ten Pounds, and then rode for London .

SOME short Time after this Robbery, I went the same Road, and met a single Man between Hammersmith and Turnham-Green ; when I came up to him I bid him stand and deliver; but, as I was then on Foot, just as I reached my Hand out to take his Money, he laid hold of it, upon which I fir'd my Pistol at him, but missed him; I then struck him such a Blow over the Head with my Pistol, that it made him stagger; however he recovered himself, drew a Hanger from under his Coat, and fell to cutting of me as hard as he could, and I having a Hanger likewise, did the same by him; however he cut me over the Head in several Places, upon which I took out my other Pistol, in order to put an End to the Battle by putting an End to his Life, but on seeing that he made off, which I was very glad of, for I was so saint with loosing so much Blood, that it was with some Difficulty I got to Town, when I went immediately to one Mr. Coleman's, a Surgeon, (who is since dead) and he dressed my Wounds. I was afterwards informed, that the very Person I attacked was one of the same Profession, insomuch that I may truly be said then to have caught a Tartar.

BY this Time I had contracted an Acquaintance with several of my Countrymen, of the same Stamp as myself, and amongst the rest was one Matthew Mooney *, my Intimacy with whom began after this Manner. Happening to lodge at one Mr. Knight's in East-Smithfield , he had not been long there before he was taken ill of a Fever; upon which a Companion of mine, who was his Acquaintance, going to visit him, and carrying me along with him, asked me whether Bleeding would not be proper for him, and on my answering Yes, why, says he, you have been Surgeon on Board a Man of War, do you bleed him, which I accordingly did, and in a few Days his Fever began to abate considerably, and he grew much better.

NOT above a Week after, my Companion and I calling again upon him at his Lodgings, to see how he did, and we found him almost recovered; whereupon he returned his Acquaintance and me Thanks, very civilly, for all our Favours, and, amongst other Things, said, he was very glad to see us in such a handsome Garb, for he had some small knowledge of me in Ireland : In Effect, both my Companion and myself were dress'd very smartly, in good superfine Cloath Coats, Waistcoats trimm'd with Silver, and Linnen and every Thing else answerable thereto. I returned him his Compliment, and at the same Time, told him very frankly, he might make as good an Appearance himself if he pleased, provided he had but a Heart to venture. How do you mean, answered Mooney, I don't understand you? Why reply'd I, to be plain with you, if you have the Courage to take a Purse upon the Highway.

* Matthew Mooney was Executed at Tyburn , on Monday, November the 12th, 1742, for committing a Robbery on the Highway, on the 29th of April, upon one Mr. Goodwin, then Clerk to Mr. Penny, in New-Broad-Street , from whom he took a Watch, a Snuff-Box, one Shilling and Sixpence in Silver, and one Penny in Copper.

Mooney seem to be somewhat surprized at this Expression, but not so much but that I fancied I should soon get the better of all his Scruples and Fears; whereupon, you seem startled said I, but think better on it, and meet me and my Friend in the Evening, in Churchlane , Whitechappel , (at a House that was then kept by one A - n, but he is since broke, and absconds) which he accordingly did. Having prevailed so far, which show'd he was wavering, and was half the Battle, we ply'd him with Liquor, and drank him up to such a pitch, that swore he wou'd never leave us, but would go with us on any future Prize.

IN Effect, next Day, having mustered up a little Money, we went to Hyde-park-Corner , to a Friend of my Companion's, and telling him we wanted three good strong Naggs, to carry us to Dunstable , he furnished us with them presently; but, instead of going the Road we pretended, we steer'd our Course towards Essex , in quest of some luckey Adventure, which we accordingly met with, in the Person of a Rev. Clergyman, whom we Saluted with the usual rough and heathenish Compliment of D - mn you Stand and Deliver. This was a very unwelcome Sound to the good Ecclesiastic, who had been just then at London , to receive a more Considerable Sum of Money, than I believe either St. Peter or all the Apostles together were ever Masters of for their own Account, being, as near as I can remember, about 70 l. According, the poor Doctor expostulated with us for some Time, and represented to us the ill Consequence of such a wicked Course of Life, with the Danger of its bringing us to an ignominious End; but all his Rhetorick availed him little, we turned the Deaf Ear to him, bid him Preach that Doctrine to his Congregation next Sunday, and not to Gentlemen of our Profession; after which, we eased him, without any Ceremony, of all his Money, except five Shillings, which we left him, to bear his Expences to Colchester, from whence he was then about twenty Miles.

FLUSH'D with this Success, we made the best of our way to London , returned our Horses, and bought three others, very good Beasts, for which we gave Thirty-five Pounds; this done, we went in search of another Booty, upon the Kentish Road . The first Person we met with there, whom we though fit for our Purpose, was a noted Apothecary who lived at Canterbury, from whom with our usual Compliment of Stand and Deliver, we took about Twenty-seven Pounds, he begg'd hard for a Return, and pleaded abundance of Poverty, but as I happened to know his Profession, I bid him go and be D - d, and get more, the same way he had got that, by Tricking and Deceiving Fools, with his pretended Arcana and Nostrums.

AFTER this we committed a great many other Robberies upon that Road, till, at last, growing pretty noted thereabouts, we thought it would be advisable to leave that part of the Country, and remain quiet for some Time, whereupon we retured to London , and put up our Horses near London-Wall .

WITH what Money we got, we Equip'd ourselves in a very handsome Manner, and we us'd to frequent several Places in Town, where genteel Company resorted, by which means we pick'd up several very creditable Acquaintances; amongst the rest were two Gentlemen of Fortune, who invited us one Night to a private Masquerade near St. James's-Square , where several People of both Sexes, were to meet at a Friend's House, in order to pass away the Evening; our two Masqueraders went thither accordingly, as likewise we did; and whilst the rest of the Company were at the height of their Jollitry, we were very busy in conveying away their Moveables, which we did in the following Manner.

THERE was a Room adjoining to that in which the Company was Assembled, in which was left their Swords, Hatts, Gold-headed

Canes, Women's Velvet Hoods and short Cloaks, &c. accordingly we being dress'd as Dutch Burgoe-Masters, with our large Breeches, took an Opportunity to slip out very often into the little Room, and stuff our Trouzers full of these Moveables, which we conveyed away at several Times to an old Bulk in St. James's-Market , where we left them in a large Bagg, which we had brought thither for that purpose. As soon as we had conveyed away as many as we conveniently could, we went back, and were as Merry as the Best; but about 4 o'Clock in the Morning, the Company breaking up, and coming to Dress themselves; one had lost his Wigg; another his Hatt; another his Gold-headed Cane, and another his Shoe-Buckles: The Ladies had lost several of their Girdle-buckles, Velvet Hoods, short Cloaks, &c. which put the Company into great Confusion; however we were not at all Suspected, so we made the best of our way towards our Booty, where I untying the Bagg, and pulling off my Masquerade Habit, dressed myself like a Gentleman whilst my Companions in their Dutch Dress, appeared not unlike Porters, marched clear off with our Purchase, to their Lodgings, which they Sold for upwards of 30 l. However we did not enjoy this our ill got Gain long, for the Hazard Table soon strip'd us; so in order to raise more, we once more equip'd ourselves for the Highway, and taking the Northamptonshire Road , committed several Robberies that way.

AMONGST the rest we attempted to rob the Northamptonshire Waggon near St. Alban's , in the following manner. I rode up to the Waggoner, and commanded him to stop, and at the same Time holding a Pistol to his Breast, Swore I would blow his Brains out if he any ways Resisted, and likewise if he did not tell me where his Money was concealed: Hereupon the Waggoner delivered his Money to one of my Companions; but as I was turning about to look towards the Arse of the Waggon, the Waggoner who then observed one of his Acquaintance coming towards us at a Distance, took the Advantage of my Back being towards him, to knock me off of my Horse, with the But-end of his Whip, which so surprized my Companions, that they rode off and left me; I recovered myself however Time enough to remount my Horse, and ride after my cowardly Companions, though I narrowly escaped being taking. I made the best of my way to London, where I met with my Comrades, and shared the Booty, which was very considerable.

AFTER having made a short Stay in London , I was advised by some of my Acquaintance, not to stay in Town long for Fear of being apprehended, for one of my Companions was taken up for a Robbery, and I was afraid he would impeach me in order to save his own Life. Accordingly having Money enough I went immediately to Harwich , and so for Holland , where as soon as I arrived, I made the best of my Way to Rotterdam , and being dressed very gay, took Lodgings as a young Gentleman just come over to deal in Merchandize. To make this appear more credible, I said I had several Correspondents at China, to whom I pretended to write Letters, and talk'd of expecting large Sums of Money, which were to be remitted in Tea and China-ware, in Return of what was due to me from that Place; and as I was well versed in Duttald's, and other Authors Accounts of China, the Project took very well; for Mynheer Snider, with whom I lodg'd, taking a Liking to me, proposed his Daughter in Marriage, whose Fortune was 500 l. But I knew very well the Design of Mr. Snider was not to conclude the Marriage till the Effects arrived, (which if he had staid for, might have been long enough) so I did not seem to be very forward, but courted the young Lady privately, and soon insinuated myself so far into her good Graces, that I could do almost every Thing with her.

IN the mean while I had lived in such a splendid Manner, that all the Money I had brought over with me from England was al

most gone, and the Time almost expired that my Goods were to come, so that if I did any Thing it must be speedily. In order to accomplish this, I took the young Lady aside one Day, and taking her by the Hand, told her, My Passion was so great, that I would inevitably destroy myself, if she would not consent to become my Wife. At last, by many artful Persuasions I gained from her a Promise: Then I told her I desired, that if she had the least Respect for me, not to let her Father know any Thing of the Matter (for I was sure he would not consent till the pretended Effects were come from China.) The young Girl promised she would not: Then I told her I designed to make her a Present of a Gold Watch, and a Diamond Ring, which would amount to 200 l. so if she could by any Means contrive to lend me that Sum unknown to her Father, (who living a Widower left his Cash under his Daughter's Care) she poor innocent Girl, greedy with the Hopes of having two such valuable Presents, soon agreed to my Request, which to make sure of, I actually bespoke of a Dutch Jew, and the Jew coming with the Watch and Ring, I desired he would leave it for the Lady's Approbation, to which he (knowing Old Mr. Snider to be a Man of Worth) readily consented: The next Day the Jew calling again, I told him I would give him an Order upon Mr. Snider, payable in six Days for the Money, which he readily accepted. This done, I got the young Girl (who had the Keys of her Father's Treasure) to let me have the Money privately, which I likewise promis'd to pay in six Days at farthest, and with which she was very well pleased, as knowing her Father would not miss it in that Time.

NEXT Day, however being in Company privately with the young Girl, who was that Day dress'd, (her Father being gone upon some Business to the Hague, from which he was not to return in three Days) with the Diamond Ring upon her Finger, and the Watch by her Side; having a Mind to have them as the Money, told her that there was a Fault in the Watch, I had not before observed; so desired she would let me carry it to Meshullam the Jew to have it rectify'd; she readily consented, I told her also, I would get the Diamond better Set, which all could be done against the next Day, so took them both, and instead of going to the Jews, made the best of my Way for Helvoetsluys , and from thence to Harwich , where I arrived safely in 48 Hours Time.

THE young Lady, as I heard afterwards, sat very patiently for some Time, but finding me not return, sent to Meshullam's the Jew, and finding I had not been there, was surpriz'd, as yet not suspecting the real Cause. But waiting the next Day, and the Day after that, she began to be very uneasy: Her Father coming the third Day, and enquiring for Mr. Cavenagh, she durst not tell him how long he had been gone; but he going into his Closet soon after, and missing a large Sum of Money, was almost mad; coming out in a Rage, who should he meet but the Jew, who was just then come to demand his Money; Meshullam holding out his Paper, and making many Cringes, told him he would not have been so exact, but - But what, Rascal! cried Mr. Snider, I owe you no Money as I know of. Don't you so, says the Jew, but here's your Son-in-Law's Order for 200 l. This putting Mr. Snider into a still greater Passion, they were near going to Blows; however after his Passion was somewhat abated, he called for his Daughter, and asked her what was become of Mr. Cavenagh, the China-Merchant? Upon which she immediately fell on her Knees, and discovered the whole Matter, and Mr. Snider immediately sent after him, but he was vanish'd like the Lady's - Hopes - but not with empty Pockets.

When I came to London , I, together with Michael Morgan , and another Person, stop'd a Chaise near the Half-way-House in Hampstead Road , with an Intent to rob the Persons in it; but in the Interim of Time came by a Number of Horsemen, upon which the Per

sons in the Chaise cry'd out Highwaymen! and the Gentlemen on Horseback attempted to take us; upon which one of our Companions fir'd a Pistol among them, and then we made off without our intended Booty.

ON Sunday, the 7th of June last, about ten o'Clock in the Evening, I, together with Tho. Stanley , Michael Morgan , one George the Sailor, and another Person, stop'd a Chaise at Mile-End , in which was one Mr. Eyres, a Wine-Merchant, in Ratcliff-Highway, and his Lady, a-coming from Mr. Bayes's, the Green-Man at Epping-Forrest, we took from Mr. Eyres a Gold Stopt-Watch, with an Enamel'd Dial-Plate, and a Gold Seal with a Coat of Arms, and some Silver; and from his Lady, we took a Green Purse with about 7 s. in Silver in it, a silver Case of Instruments, a Needle-Book, and three Pair of Gloves, and then made off.

AFTER this Robbery, I, William South , Samuel South , and George the Sailor, about ten o'Clock in the Evening, stop'd four Gentlemen and a Gentlewoman, in a back Road between Bow and London ; and we took from one of the four Gentlemen a Gold Watch, and from another, a Silver Watch, the Makers Name John Beaks , and about 40 s. in Money, and some Outlandish Pieces of Money like Silver, and Copper mixt; after we had committed this Robbery, we made the best of our Way to Town.

Lot Cavenagh , and one William Jackson , otherwise South , robb'd one Mr. Kitson, in Aldersgate Street , ofn four Yards and a Quarter of Silk; I and Jackson went to the Shop under Pretence to buy some Handkerchiefs; while the Woman in the Shop was busy in taking down a Parcel, I took the Silk above-mentioned, and gave it to Jackson, and he put it into his Bosom. When we had got about 40 Yards from the Shop, two Men laid hold of us, and brought us back; and as we were coming back, Jackson threw the Handkerchief into a Cellar; we were both carried before the sitting Alderman and committed to Newgate .

HAVING staid some Time in London, I had an Inclination to go to Canterbury , which accordingly I did, without attempting any Thing upon the Lay. When I came there, I liv'd after a gay Manner, for about two Months; when my Money being almost expended, I was oblig'd to rack my little Wits how to get more. During the Stay at this Place, I had got acquainted with an old Anabaptist Teacher, that was worth Money, and had insinuated myself so far in this Person's Favour, that he used to be very fond of me, and visiting me very often, we used to have frequent Disputes concerning Religion, till at last Matters being ripe for my Purpose, I pretended that my Conscience troubled me very much, that I had been sprinkled in my Infancy, and not dipp'd; and added, if I could be dipp'd privately, it would be a great Satisfaction to me. This Saying much rejoiced the old Gentleman, who thought that he had brought me now over to his Way of Thinking. He told me, therefore, that if I had a Mind to be dipped, he had a Cold Bath in a back Place in his House, that was used on purpose for those Occasions. I answered with abundance of seeming Joy, I would embrace the Opportunity, and wait on him in a Day or two, in order to perform this Ceremony which I had so long desired.

NOW I had often been very watchful to see where the old Gentleman put his Money, which at last I found out; and the Day being come, in which I was to be dipped, I repaired to the old Gentleman's House; when I came there, I found him at Prayers, and very Devout for bringing me over to his Persuasion; as soon therefore as I entered the Room where the old Gentleman was, without any farther Ceremony, I kneeled down likewise, and after we had prayed about the Space of an Hour, we both arose, when I pretending that I would not have the Maid know any thing of the Matter; the old Gentleman call'd her, and told her, if she would, she might go out for an Hour or two, and so she was dispatch'd out of the Way, which was all I wanted. This done, I and the old Gentleman went towards the Bath, which lay backwards, out of

 Lot Cavenagh made himself an Evidence against William Jackson , otherwise South , in the Mayoralty of George Heathcote , Esq ; See Sessions Book, No. I. and was found Guilty of 4 s. 10 d. Transportation.

any Body's hearing; as soon as we came there, for our farther Security we unlock'd the Door that opened into the Place where the Bath was and lock'd ourselves both in; and whilst I was undressing, the old Gentleman was kneeling with his Back towards me and the Door, and very devoutly at Prayers; I took this Opportunity to unlock the Door softly, and put the Key on the other Side, and when I had so done went pretty quick towards the old Man, and observing before that the Bath was not out of his Depth, so that he could not be Drowned, gave him a push, so that the old Gentleman tumbled in over Head and Ears; and whilst he was scrambling to get out again, I lock'd the Door, shut him in, and went towards the Closet, where he put his Money. In the mean while, the old Gentleman kept knocking and calling out, but he might as well have held his Peace, for no-body could hear him but me, who you may be sure was not in a hurry to let him out, I then took out of the Closet Twenty-seven Pounds and some Silver, and going out shut the Street Door after me, and made the best of my way for London .

THE last Robbery I committed was in Company with Cordelia Taylor , who was to have been my Fellow-Sufferer, and with whom I kept Company, as did William Taylor , whom she and I robbed after the following Manner. On Sunday the 3d of October, the said William Taylor took a walk to one Boswel's, in Tyburn Road , where he met with one William Wilson , who had been an old Acquaintance. Hereupon says Wilson to Taylor, I am heartily glad to see you, how do you, won't you Drink with me? Says Taylor, I dont care if I do; so they went into a back Room, and I happened to be in the same Room, they staid there till between two and three in the Afternoon, when Wilson and I persuaded Taylor to go along with us to one Gascoign's, at Hockley in the Hole , where we asked Taylor to stay to Supper, to which he agreed.

Thereupon we all went up one pair of Stairs, where we found Cordelia Taylor , who was there before us, and staid till near eleven o'Clock: Taylor wou'd then have gone Home, but, it beginning to Rain, he did not care to venture through it, wherefore he ask'd the Landlady of the House if he could have a Bed there. She told him he might, wherefore he resolved to lye there, and at the same Time desired her to call him up early, for, being a Butcher , he was obliged to be at Market pretty soon; she promis'd she wou'd, and accordingly did call him a little after Three in the Morning, when he got up, intending to make the best of his way to Market.

HE had not gone far, however, in Hockley in the Hole Road , before Cordelia Taylor and my self overtook him, and attacked him; I presenting a Pistol to him, bid him stand and deliver, whilst Cordelia Taylor stood over him with a Hanger drawn in her Hand. Taylor said he had but very little Money, but I swore D - n him, if he spoke a Word, and did not deliver immediately, I would blow his Brains out. D - n him cries Cordelia Taylor , shoot him, for he knows us. No, says I, it is enough to rob him, without Murdering him. So we took from him his Hat and Wig, which I threw into Cordelia Taylor 's Lap, then she bid me strip off his Cloaths, which I did, taking from him a Duffle Great Coat, and a Silver plate button'd Frock, which Frock and Wigg I wore in the New Goal, on the other side of the Water: I took also a black Cloth Waistcoat, a pair of Buckskin Breeches, and a pair of Silver Buckles, which Cordelia Taylor pull'd out of his Shoes, at the same Time desiring me not to return him his * Wedges, for, says she, they are Silver.

 Cordelia Taylor , complained bitterly of her hard Fate, that she had suffered for one whom she had lived with as Man and Wife for some Time, and likewise alledged the improbability of her and Cavenagh's robbing a Man with whom they were both so intimate, and who knew every Day where to find them both, without Murdering him, when it was in their Power. She added, that when Lot Cavenagh , and this William Taylor , used to come together sometimes to her Lodgings, and she would call him her Billy, with a great deal of good Humour, he wou'd frown at her, and bite his Lips, because Cavenagh look'd hard at her, and D - 'd her for a B - h,* A Cant Word for Buckles.

 On Saturday came down a Reprieve for Cordelia Taylor , for Transportation for 14 Years, and when she was informed that there was a Reprieve for her, she seemed no ways overjoyed, as some are, when under her unhappy Condition; but said as she was condemned with Lot Cavenagh , she did not care if she was to Die with the Man she Loved, for Life or Death was equal to her, as he was to Die.

flying into a violent Passion, and giving her all Manner of ill Language; in which however she confessed she was not a Jot behind-hand with him, though she said she was always of a peaceable Temper enough, if she was not provoked too much. She said farther, this Taylor had given her Reason enough to be jealous of him, and did not deny but that she had given him the same to be jealous of her, insinuating, that both she and her Fellow-Sufferer Lot Cavenagh, (of whom he said she was particularly jealous) lost their Lives only on Account of a jealous Grudge; adding nevertheless, that she forgave him, and every one else who had injured her, as she hoped he, and all whom she had injured, would forgive her.

The following SPEECH was intended to have been spoken by LOT CAVENAGH , at the Place of Execution, but having a Cold, he could not speak it, and therefore desired it might be inserted in his Dying-Speech.

GOOD PEOPLE,

" I AM brought hither to suffer an untimely " and shameful Death, for a lawless and " more shameful Life. Would to Heaven I " had thought so before it had been too late, " I had not then be brought to this Place, to " be a Gazing-Stock to Mankind; a miserable " End, for a miserable Life: Heaven sanctify " it to my Soul! What makes my Case the " worse, is, it was neither Want of Sense, nor " Want of Ability to get a handsome Living, " in an honest Way, which has brought me " to this ignominious Punishment. No, it was " my own lewd Inclination, and Hatred to " Confinement, or Work of any Sort. Let all " my Countrymen, if any of them are here, " take Warning by my unhappy Fate.

" HERE I am now, in a few Minutes " comes Death, and then comes Judgment. " Aye! but what Kind of Judgment? Not a " a Temporal Judgment, that condemns me to " a Temporal and Momentary Death, but a final Judgment, where I am to hear a Sentence " which sends me either to eternal Happiness or " Misery; which I have best deserved, God " and my own Conscience knows too well; but "Thanks to a Gracious Redeemer, it is not " my own Demerits will condemn me, whilst " his Merits can plead for me: The Lord apply them unto my sinful Soul! And why " not? The Mercy of our Saviour is still the " same; and I am not the first Thief who has " gone from the fatal Tree to Paradise. I will " hope the best.

" MY dear, good Fellow-Subjects, assist me " with your Prayers till I shall be no more, " especially in my last Agonies, when I am not " able to pray for myself. 'Tis a dreadful Prospect, Heaven strengthen me to go through it! " And now I cooly look back upon my past misspent Life, what better could be expected " from it? I begun with robbing my Master, " who used me very kindly. I practiced next " upon my own Uncle, who took me from under another Officer into his own Company, " that he might have an Opportunity to treat " me the more favourably, and prefer me as Occasion offered: But nothing would make any " Impression upon me, nothing would satisfy " me, but that lewd, loose Course of Life, " which has brought me hither, but too " justly.

" AND now, my dear loving Countrymen, " (for so will I call you, though I was born in " Ireland, since we are all Subjects to the same " Prince) I am going to pay my Life a Forfeit " to the Laws; it is all they require; but be " not you more severe than they; do not hate " me beyond Death, do not persecute me when " in the Grave, by reflecting upon my Wife " and innocent Relations, whose Counsel, if I " would have taken, and by whom if I would " have been ruled, I had avoided coming to " this shameful Place. The Lord be as much " their Comfort, as I have been their Shame, " Sorrow, and Heart-breaking.

" NOTHING now remains, but to desire your hearty and fervent Prayers for my poor departing Soul. Oh! Dear Saviour, remember

" me now thou art in thy Kingdom! In Thee " alone, and thy precious Blood, shed for such " miserable, self-condemned Sinners as me, do " I trust. Lord, I owe much, I have nothing " to pay, do Thou frankly forgive me All, as " I frankly forgive all Men! Let my Soul be " precious in thy Sight! Present my Dying " Groans unto Thy Father; sprinkle them and " the Mercy-Seat with thy Blood! Cloath me " with Thy Righteousness, and receive me into Thy Bosom. Amen, sweet Jesus, Amen. " The Lord have Mercy upon my sinful " Soul!

Lot Cavenagh .

Dorothy Rowland 's Letter to Lot Cavenagh , when under Sentence of Death.

Feb. 10, 1742.

LOT Cavenagh , you do very well know that I have been very much deceived by you; I need not tell you the Particulars for you know them right well; and notwithstanding that, I have endeavour'd to assist you to the uttermost of my Power; and because it is not in my Power to do that THING which you requested of me, touching the saving of your Body from the Surgeons; you speak threatning Words to me, telling me, that if you can, you will trouble me after you are dead.

O Lot! that is not in your Power, neither am I afraid of you in the least, for that I have made you no fault, and that you cannot say to me. Notwithstanding, I am sorry for you, to hear you, a dying Man, utter Vengeance with your Tongue, when your Heart should think only of Mercy: I should be glad to hear that you in the bottom of your Heart, was truely sensible of your Sins, and the Sinfulness of your Heart, and then, (notwithstanding that I have been a great Sufferer by you) I should from the bottom of my Heart Rejoice; for Heart Conviction of Sin, is the first Step to true Repentance, and unless you be made sensible of the Sins of your Soul, you will not then much Regard what becomes of your Body, after your Soul is departed and gone from it. I therefore could wish that you would not look any more to be help'd by me, for I have done what I can; and now I resign you into the Hands of my Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, who was crucified for my Sins and not for mine only, but also for the Sins of the whole World; and if you are sensible of your sinful Heart, you may find Mercy in his Blood, which was shed for Sinners, and I shall not cease to pray for you so long as you live in this World, for I freely forgive you the Evil that you have done to me, from the Bottom of my Heart; and I hope the Lord will forgive you also.

These from your Friend,

And Well-wisher,

DOROTHY ROWLAND .

The following ACCOUNT MICHAEL BEWLEY gave of himself three Days before his Execution.

MICHAEL Bewley , aged 24 Years, was born in Bishopsgate Parish , where he has a Father at this Time living, and one Sister, his Mother has been dead twelve Years: When he was fit to go to School, his Father put him to one Mr. Toby, in Bishopsgate-Street , where he continued about three Years, and then his Father took him from thence, and instructed him himself, till he was about fourteen Years of Age, when he bound him at Weavers Hall to himself (he being a Handkerchief Weaver) and he served his Time out very faithfully and justly. He said, the first beginning of his Misfortunes was occasioned by getting acquainted with a leud Woman of the Town, who lives just by his Fathers, and leaving his lawful Wife, who (he says) is a very sober Woman, adding, that had he taken her Counsel, and his Fathers, he had avoided coming to that ignominious Death, he was to undergo. His Father, in particular, would frequently admonish him of the ill Consequences, which, one Day or other, would unavoidably attend his giving himself up to such ill Practices, as he daily follow'd, to maintain that Wretch in riotous living; this he too late found to be true; however, he said, he was very willing to dye, being sensible, that the longer he

lived, the more and the greater Sins he should have been guilty off.

THE first Robbery that ever he committed, was in company with one Michael Smith *, and Thomas Hedley ||; their frequent Practice was to sally out between seven and eight o'Clock in the Evening, and go upon the SNEAK, that is, to watch an Opportunity while the People of the Shops were busy, to take the first Thing they could lay their Hands on, as Tubs of Soap, or Butter; there was another Person concern'd with them in several Robberies; Bewley said, that Person had seen his Folly, and had taken up, and is very good and works hard at his Trade, having left off this wicked Course of Life for two Years past; and if he had taken his Advice, he had not come to the unhappy End he was then deservedly to make.

THE next Robbery they committed, was in Newgate-Street , not far from Newgate , at a Grocers and a Tobacconist's Shop, where they took out of the Shop, about 20 Pound of Rapee-Snuff, about eight o'Clock in the Evening. This was about the Time of the hard Frost, and they sold the Snuff for twelve Shillings, and shared the Money between them.

ABOUT a Week after, they all three went out again, and robbed a Linnen-Draper's in Fore-street , one of them going into the Shop on Pretence to buy something, while the other two staid at the Door to stand BULK . Bewley took from that Place, a Role of Check of about thirty-one Yards, which they sold to one of the Lock's in Rag-Fair , for 9 d. per yard.

ONE Evening as they were out upon their Prey they met with a Gentleman who was very much in Liquor. Bewley went up to him, and said, Sir, I perceive you are very much in for it, let me and my Friends take Care of you, and see you safe Home; Honest Friends, said the Gentleman, I thank you, you all seem to be very civil Gentlemen, I don't care if you do, but let us drink together first; withal our Hearts, cries Bewley, and the rest of his Companions; accordingly they all went to a Public-House in Bishopsgate-street , where the Gentleman call'd for a Bowl of Punch, and when it was out, he pulled out his Purse, wherein was about ten Guineas, and pays the Reckoning, little thinking what Company he was in; then they went out all together. As they were going along, they led him into a narrow Passage, and then they told him they must borrow that Purse of Money of him. Money, Gentlemen! What is it you mean? Come, come, Sir, says Bewley, Gentlemen of our Profession are not to be triffled with. Gentlemen, said the Stranger, I took you to be very honest Persons, and I hope you are only in jest. D - n you, says Michael Smith , you shall see that we are in Earnest; upon which he pulled out a Pistol, and swore, he would blow his Brains out, if he did not immediately deliver his Money; which he accordingly did. Bewley then asked him, where he lived, and promised he would in a few Days return him his Money again with Thanks, protesting they would not have taken it from him, but they had a present Occasion for just such a Sum. The Surprize of taking his Money from him, had made him something soberer than he was, so he very readily told them, they might hear of him at Change Hours at Garraway's Coffee-House, he being an Exchange-Broker. D - n him, says Michael Smith , it is no Sin to rob a Broker, for it is only playing at Rob Thief; so they made off with the Purse and Money, and wish'd him well home, and bid him for the future, to take Care who saw him to his Habitation.

AFTER they had spent this Money, thus ill gotten, upon the vile Women of the Town,

* Michael Smith was tried at the Old-Bailey , and Transported in the Mayoralty of Sir John Salter , See Sessions-Book, No. III. for breaking and entering the Dwelling-House of Mr. Cowley, in the Parish of St. Botolph Bishopsgate , about the Hour of seven at Night, and taking a Stuff Damask Gown, a Green Poplin Gown, an Ash Colour'd Petticoat, and a black Callamanco quilted Petticoat, Value 2 Shillings.

|| Thomas Hedley is gone for a Marine .

 Bulk is to receive the Goods from the Person who steals them, and so march off with them.

(which is commonly the Case with these unhappy Wretches) their next Business was to seek out for more, which they accordingly did, as follows. This wicked Triumvirare, Smith, Hedley, and Bewley, went one Night to the Tenter-Grounds near Moorfields , and there took off of the Tenters Eighteen Yards of such Stuff as is used to make Frocks for Men; which done, they sold it to one Betty Barefoot , a great Lock * in Rag Fair , for 10 s. 6 d. and so they divided they Money, which being soon spent, they were again put to their Shifts how to make a Recruit.

ABOUT a Week after this Robbery, as they were all three going along near the same Tenter-Ground, and nigh the Place were they committed the last Robbery, they espied some Linnen hanging a drying in a back Yard, which they took and carried off to Rag-Fair , and sold it to the aforesaid Betty Barefoot , for no more than 30 s. though Bewley affirmed it was richly worth 5 l. at least.

AFTER this Fact, Bewley left Smith and Hedley, and (as he said) lived honest for some Time, working hard at his Business with a Master Weaver in Spittlefields . In the mean while his two wicked Companions went out together, and committed divers Robberies; particularly Smith took from his own Mother, at several times, many Things of Value. At last he was taken up for breaking open a House, and was admitted an Evidence; which Bewley hearing, left his Master whom he work'd withal, and being afraid that Smith would put him into his Information, and he should be Gravil'd , he immediately set out for Canterbury , in Order to get Business in that City. He staid there about a Week, but not being able to get any Employment, he returned to London. He kept out of the Way, however, till Sessions was over, when Michael Smith not coming up to his Evidence, was try'd, found guilty, and ordered for Transportation, which effectually took off his Evidence for the future.

AFTERWARDS Bewley took for his Fellow-Man  one Richard Clay , and the first Robbery they committed together was between seven and eight in the Evening at a Stocking shop, the upper End of Shoe-Lane , almost to Field Lane , in Holbourn . They took out of the said Shop 21 Pair of Stockings, and had the Impudence to carry them to an Alehouse just by where they committed the Robbery, and there left them. This done, they went immediately out again, and just by Holbourn-Bars they watched the Opportunity of a Maid's going up Stairs, and so pushed into a House, and took out of the Parlour 3 Red Cloaks and a Velvet-Hood; after which they made off to the House where they had left the Stockings, and bundling them all up together, carried them to their Old Friend in Rag-Fair , and sold the Stockings, three Red Cloaks, and the Hood, for no more than Two Guineas. Such lumping Pennyworths do such Wretches make of the ill-gotten Goods for which they venture their Lives.

THE next Night they went up Holbourn again, and in going along they spied an Oil Shop, where they observed the Servants to be busy at the furthermost End of the Shop, they took this Opportunity to carry off from thence a Tub of Soap, and sold it for 7 s. 6 d. Several more Robberies of this Kind Bewley owned he had committed with this Richard Clay , and desired he would take Warning by his untimely Fate, and leave off such wicked Courses: Adding, that if he is not gone Abroad, he hopes his Mother will send him out of the Kingdom as soon as possible, if not, he is afraid he soon will follow him, being naturally of a vicious Inclination.

AFTER he left Richard Clay sometime, he took up with James Smith (one under the same Sentence with himself) and one Miller: Whilst these two were waiting without, Bewley went into a Grocer's Shop in Holbourn , on Pretence to

* Lock, is one that buys stolen Goods, knowing them to be stolen.

 Gravil'd, is to be hang'd.

 Fellow-Man, one who robs in Company with another.

cheapen something, and while the Man's Back was turned, conveyed away a large Cannister of Green Tea, of about 15 Pounds; but as he was carrying it but of the Shop a Man met him, and asked him, What he did with that Cannister of Tea? To which he made no Reply, but being pretty nimble-heel'd, took to his Legs and ran as far as Temple-Bar , where he took Coach, and ordered the Coachman to drive him to the House where he used to leave his unlawful Purchases, and there he found his two Companions, who were waiting for him. They carried the Tea the same Evening to Betty Barefoot 's in Rag Fair , and made a Bargain with her for 3 l. but when she had got it into her Possession, she would pay them no more than 1 l. 8 s. which they were obliged to accept as Bewley said, for Fear she should betray them. Such is the miserable Fate of these poor Wretches, to ventre their Necks to enrich a Pack of vile Receivers, worse than themselves, who run away with the most of the Profit.

SOMETIME after this Robbery, Bewley was taken up for robbing a Person of some Rabbits, and by the Persuasion of a Thief-taker he turn'd Evidence, put Miller into his Information, and inform'd one of the Thief-takers where he might take him. Accordingly he went, and Miller happened to be at the Place, but he made his Escape, by getting out of one of the Windows of the House, and got entirely off. Sessions coming on, Bewley was brought to the Bar in Order to take his Trial, but no Proscecutor appearing he was discharged. Sometime after this, Miller * was taken up for stealing a Tea-Kettle out of a Shop in Fleet-street, was tried for it at the Old-Bailey, found guilty, and ordered for Transportation.

WHEN Bewley had got his Liberty, and Miller was transported, he was at a Loss to get a Fellowman; at last he bethought himself of his old Companion Richard Clay ; so accordingly one Evening he goes to Clay's Mother in White-Chapple , where he found him, and ask'd him, if he would go out upon the Lay as usual; he readily complyed, and the first Robbery they committed when they were together, was at a House in Red Cross-street . Bewley, for three Quarters of a Year before he was apprehended, had always used to carry a dark Lanthorn and a Chissel about him; and when he saw he had an Opportunity to rob any House, he would go and light his Candle at a Neighbour's just by; when he had so done, he put it into the Dark Lanthorn, and then concealed it in his Bosom, between his Coat and Waistcoat, shutting it close that nobody could see that he had any Light, and then to work he went, while Clay stood Peter . If he found that the Sashes of any House would not go up, then he would take his Chissel, which he brought for that Purpose, and wrench'd them open till they would go up very easily, and by this Means it was that he got into the Parlour of the abovementioned House, and stript it of what Things were there, as Plate, Linnen, Cloaths, &c. for having bundled up what he got in a large Sheet, he gave them out of Window to Clay, who stood ready to receive them. This done, they both made off undiscovered, and carried the Goods to a certain Jew, who bought them very readily; the Linnen and Cloaths we sold for six Pounds, and the Plate for four Shillings per Ounce.

THE last Robbery that Bewly committed was with Richard Clay , and was that for which he suffered; this was for entring the Dwelling House of Mr. Hodges, at St. Giles's, Cripplegate , about the Hour of Seven o'Clock, on the 25th of last October, and taking from thence some Pewter. He got into the House, by cutting the Lead of a Window, and then taking out two panes of Glass, which done, he opened the Window, and slipt into the Room, where he saw nothing but Pewter, unfortunately for him, while he was taking down the Pewter in order to hand it out to Clay, the Woman of the House who had been out, and came Home just in the nick of Time, seeing a light in the House, and knowing she had not left any one at Home, was greatly

* Miller was transported about two Years ago.

 Peter is one to stand and look out that nobody sees them, and to receive the Goods.

alarmed; but she was yet more so, when, coming up to the Window, she heard the rattling of Plates and Dishes, whereupon, she cryed out to one Mrs. Holding, who happened to be near her, I wish somebody has not broke into my House Backwards. These Words were no sooner out of her Mouth, and she had scarce turned herself about, before Bewley, who probably overheard them, jump'd out of the Window, and betook himself to his Heels; he had not got far however, not above Thirty Yards, before he fell down, and she coming up with him, before he could recover himself, seiz'd him by the Collar, and had the Courage there to hold him, till some came to her Assistance, and forced him back to her House, where she charged a Constable with him, who carried him directly to Woodstreet-Compter .

NEXT Morning he was fetch'd out to his Examination, before the sitting Alderman, and the Fact being prov'd plainly upon him, was by him committed to Newgate , from whence he was brought to the Bar last December Sessions, and upon a fair Trial, Condemned to Dye an untimely and shameful Death, as his honest Father had often foretold, and forwarned him to little purpose.

Altho' Mr. Guthrie, in his foregoing, has given some Account of Mr. Wright otherwise Brown, who robb'd Mr. BELCHER the Surgeon, at his own House behind the the Royal-Exchange , yet we hope it will not be disagreeable to the READER, to give him the following.

STEPHEN WRIGHT otherwise John Brown , which last is his right Name, Twenty one years of Age, was born at Liverpoole , in Lancashire , when he was very Young, his Father and Mother went from Liverpoole to Ireland and there settled; by his Behaviour and Conversation, he has had the Education of a Gentleman. When he came to a proper Age, his Father put him Apprentice to one Mr. Josias Harper , a Chyrurgeon in the City of Dublin ; but had not an opportunity in his Apprenticeship to make so great an Improvement in his Profession, as the Practitioners in Surgery have at the Hotel Dieu at Paris. He had not been out of his Time long, before unfortunately he had a Quarel with a Gentleman upon a young Ladies Account; to prevent the ill Consequences of which, together with those which might ensue from his being too much addicted to GAMING; he was resolved to quit Ireland, and make the best of his way to Paris , by way of London , where he arriv'd, but too soon for his own Welfare in November last, with about 180 l. in Cash, with which Money he intended to defray not only his Expences in going to Paris , but to Support himself their during his Stay.

HOWEVER, he had not been long in London , before he unfortunately became acquainted with some young Gentlemen, who prevailed with him to go with them to the Lord Mordington's Gaming Table; to which having naturally an itch of GAMING, he was but too much inclined of himself. There he unfortunately lost 30 l. the first Night; but flattering himself with the hopes of having better Fortune another Time, he went another Night, and then instead of regaining what he Lost, had the Misfortune to loose his ALL, which was the whole remainder of the 180 l. with which Money he intended to have made his Progress to Paris. Being then left destitute in a strange City, of both Friends and Money, and reduced even to the utmost Necessity, having Pledg'd most of his Apparel, and being at last compell'd to Sell even his Hat to buy himself a morsel of Meat: In short, being even tir'd of Life, he resolved upon attacking Mr. Belcher the Surgeon as he did, in the following Manner; but solemnly protested he never intended to hurt him. First, he made him a Visit, as a Patient, pretending unfortunately to have caught the Venereal Disease, and acquainting him with the several Symptoms he felt; as also that having heard a great Character of him, it had induced him, tho' a Stranger, to apply to him, preferably to any other, and offering him five Guineas for the Cure; he concluded, with desiring Mr. Belcher to prepare him proper Medicines, against the next Evening, about 5 o'Clock, when he wou'd not fail to call for them, at that

Time he could not conveniently stay, having some Gentlemen waiting for him.

ACCORDINGLY, the next Night about the Hour appointed, Mr. Wright, otherwise Brown, came to Mr. Belcher's, and knocking at the Door, the Servant immediately came and let him in; upon which Mr. Wright, ask'd if Mr. Belcher was at Home; the Servant told him he was, desired him to Walk in, and strait way lighted him into the Room; after the Servant was gone out, he took a view of the Room, to see if there was any more Door's but one, and afterwards he seated himself in a carless Posture by the Fire. When Mr. Belcher, entered the Room, affected to be a Buckling his Shoes; upon Mr. Belcher's approaching him he seem'd not to see him till he came near the Fire: After passing a few Compliments, Mr. Belcher took out of his Pocket the Medicines he had prepared; (Mr. Brown begged the Favour of Mr. Belcher, that he would not let any of his Servants know his Misfortune,) and set them upon the Table, after which, he got up, took some of the Druggs, and smell'd to them, and seemingly affected to Cough at the Smell, but all of a sudden, taking out a Pistol, and presenting it to the Body of Mr. Belcher, at the same time, desiring him not to be surprized, nor make any Noise; he assured him, that he was drove to the utmost Distress, and that Necessity compell'd him to Attack him in that Manner.

MR. Belcher was very much Surpriz'd, as may be well imagin'd, and his Countenance chang'd; however, after he had a little recover'd himself, he put his Hand in his Pocket, and gave Mr. Brown two Guineas; upon which he said, that wou'd not do, he must have more. Mr. Belcher then desir'd him to put his Pistol up, and he wou'd give him what Money he had. Accordingly upon his Request, he did put the Pistol into his Pocket, keeping his Thumb upon the Cock, to prevent its going off. Mr. Belcher then pull'd out three Guineas more, with some Silver; when Mr. Brown perceiving the Chain of his gold Watch, demanded that likewise of Mr. Belcher, who was very unwilling to part with it. But Mr. Brown finding him delay, and not having Patience, pull'd it out himself, and as he was putting it into his Pocket, with the Money, Mr. Belcher observing him not to be upon his Guard, seiz'd him by the Arms, and push'd him back over a Chair, so that they both fell over upon the Ground: Mr. Belcher however, being uppermost kept his Hold, and call'd out Murder, and his Servants immediately enter'd the Room, where they found them in the Posture aforesaid. Mr. Brown, having the Pistol in one Hand, and the Watch in the other: Accordingly he was immediately secur'd and committed to Newgate ; he had not been there long, before a Gentleman (who 'tis said) is a very near Relation of the Prosecutor's, sent him not only a Morning Gown, Shirts, but Money to Pay his Fees, on purpose that he may be on the Master-side, till he should know his Fate. He also allow'd him 5 s. per Week, ever since he has been under this unhappy Condition. After he had hung the usual Time, he was cut down, and his Body was conveyed in a Mourning Coach with four Horses, (which waited there for that Purpose) to Pancras Church-yard , and there Interr'd.

The following LETTER was sent to Mr. WRIGHT, otherwise BROWN, just after he was capitally Convicted.

SIR,

' IT is with the utmost Concern I write this ' to you, it bringing you no Prospect of avoiding the fatal Sentence lately pronounced against you; I most ardently wish it more in my ' Power, but alas! I have tried the utmost of my ' Interest in your Behalf, without Success. I ' wish you could think of some Way wherein I ' might shew you the Sincerity of my Disposition, to render all the Service I am capable of. ' There is but one left, which I can think of, ' and that is, for you to draw up a Petition yourself to his Majesty, setting forth your Family, ' your Business, your Age, your Misfortunes in ' Gaming at Lord Moddlington's, &c. the great ' Despair and Distress you were in, the Cause of ' your coming over; it being the first Crime or ' Fact you was ever guilty of, your sincere Repentance of it, acknowledging the Justness of ' your Sentence, your owning how greatly you ' have offended the Laws of Society, and your ' Willingness to be transported for Life, to any ' Place his most gracious Majesty, thro' his great ' Wisdom, shall be pleased to order you, and that ' you shall think yourself in Duty bound to make ' an Atonement for this great Offence, by your ' future Conduct, which shall be entirely devoted

' for the Benefit of your Fellow-Subjects, if it ' shall please his Majesty to spare you. This, Sir, ' is the only Thing I can think of, and also the ' last Effort that can be made for you: I'll endeavour all I possibly can to prevail on my Brother to get it presented, and if he should deny ' it me, I'll endeavour to get it done by some of ' his Majesty's Council. Delay not this one Moment; let me have it To-morrow Morning early, there being no Time to be lost; above all ' let it be quite open and true; hide not any thing. ' It grieves me to think I can give you only this ' faint Shadow of Success, this poor glimmering ' Light of Hopes. Therefore for the Sake of your ' eternal Happiness, let not this distant View flatter you in the least; let it not break in one ' Moment on the short time appointed you to live, ' but with the Sincerity becoming a Christian, ' make a thorough Repentance, and a pious Resignation of yourself: Be not intimidated, depend ' more in the Mercy of the Almighty, than in ' our own Merit; rest assured, that thro' his infinite Wisdom, whatsoever is to become of you, ' will be the best for you. I conclude with most ' humbly imploring the Almighty Father and our ' blessed Saviour, that this Cup may pass from ' you, but if not, may his Sovereign Will be ' done, and you enabled to glorify him in this his ' righteous Dispensation. I shall continue to pray ' for you, and otherwise serve you to the utmost ' of my Power. Pray let me hear from you Tomorrow Morning. In the mean while I abide,

Your real Friend and Well-wisher.

W. B.

Lombard-street, March 23, 1742.

The following LETTER Mr. Wright, otherwise Brown, sent to Thomas Handley , Esq;

April 1, 1743.

DEAR SIR,

I Wrote to Mr. Dillon on Monday last, to beg his utmost Assistance at this Exigence: he wrote a very kind Answer, wherein he declared his Willingness to serve, provided I could put him in a Way to do it effectually; he mentioned in his Letter, that he had sent to Ireland for a Certificate, whereby to satisfy, not alone my Prosecutor, but other Gentle-men who interested themselves in my Cause; but at that Time, said, he had no Return of an Answer: On Wednesday last, I received the agreeable News that the Certificate was come, which he immediately sent to Mr. Belcher, who seing it certified, and attested by Mr Harper, and twenty three Gentlemen more (all of them great Men) declared now, that he was well ascertain'd of the Truths I had formerly told him; he would use his utmost Interest to obtain a Reprieve, which he did not doubt of succeeding in. I would have wrote before this to you, but could not give you so satisfactory Account. Pardon this Prolixity, and you'll oblige Yours,

JOHN BROWN .

The following LETTER he sent to a Gentlewoman, some few Days before his Execution.

MADAM.

YOU may perhaps be surprized at the first Sight of this. But when you recollect and consider, that it comes from the unhappy Stephen Wright , which Name I went by to you, your Amazement then must Vanish, and Pity take its Place. Whether you have, or have not as yet heard of my miserable Condition, the Almighty God best is a Judge, I am not. - But this I must acquaint you, that now I am under the just Sentence of Death, and do shortly expect to appear before the Judgment Seat of Christ; but how shall I look my dear Redeemer in the Face, or whether shall I fly? - Had I never seen that unhappy Place my Lord Moddlington's, I trust I had not now been here; when I came to London, my Intentions were good; but too easily was I drawn into that Snare, which now my weeping Eyes, and aking Heart Repents. Oh! may my ever Gracious God forgive me my manifold Sins. My dearest Friend Mr. John W - I long to see; I conjure him by the living God, to come unto me before I go hence, and am no more seen. I heartily, and sincerely dear Madam, beg your Prayers for my poor Soul. Whilst I am, I'll think of you, and when I am dead, may my Shade for ever rest in Paradise, where you may come to the now Wretched, though then Blessed,

JOHN BROWN .

From my Cells in Newgate, April 8th, 1743.

FINIS.

Printed, and sold by M. COOPER, at the Globe in Pater-Noster-Row. 1743. [Price Six-pence.]

