The ORDINARY of NEWGATE his Account of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Criminals that were Executed at Tyburn, on Wednesday the 10th of May, 1704.

AT the Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, being the 26th, 27th, and 28th of April last, Five Persons received Sentence of Death, and another, who was formerly condemn'd for Coining, and afterwards pardon'd, upon Condition that she should transport her self out of the QUEEN's Dominions, and never return into them again; having neglected to perform that Condition of her Pardon, was now order'd to prepare her self for Death. Of these Six Persons, the last being Repriev'd by HER MAJESTY's Mercy, and another for being with Quick-Child, Four of them only are now appointed for Execution.

ON the Lord's-Day, the 30th of April last, I preach'd to the Prisoners that were brought up to the Chappel in Newgate, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon these Words of David, Psal. 109. the latter end of the 4th Verse, But I give my self unto Prayer.

From which Words, first paraphrastically explain'd, I prosecuted the Discourse, which I had enter'd upon, the Lord's-Day before; shewing,

I. The Necessity we are under of applying our selves in Prayer to such a powerful Being, as can and will support, relieve, and assist us in all Circumstances of Life, and particularly when we are under Affliction.

II. I shew'd this Powerful Being, the true Object of our Prayers, or Religious Addresses, to be God alone, in whom we live, and move, and have our Being here, and from whom we may expect an eternal Well-being hereafter. He it is that can hear and grant our Requests. He alone is able (as he is most willing and ready also) to help and deliver us out of our Troubles. Call upon me in the time of Trouble, I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorifie me, Psal 50. 51.

III. What is the particular Nature and Use of Prayer, as being the Result of a Sense we have of our Wants, Misery, and Unworthiness, on the one hand; and of God's All-Sufficiency, Goodness, and Excellence, on the other.

IV. The certain Success and unspeakable Advantages which we obtain by our Prayers duly offer'd to God, in the Name and through the Intercession of his eternal Son, Jesus Christ, our only Mediator, in whom he is well pleased, and for whose sake he will accept of us, and make such gracious Returns to our sincere and devout fervent Applications to Him, as will (in the end) prove most agreeable and comfortable to our Souls.

V. and Lastly, The Conditions absolutely necessary for Prayer, viz. Faith, Hope, and Charity; which Christian Virtues (when we are well grounded in them) bring us to a perfect Resignation of our Wills to God's Will, and an universal Obedience to his Command: And then our Prayers are acceptable to God. God heareth not Sinners; but, if any Man be a Worshiper of God and doth his Will, him he heareth, Joh 9. 31.

ON the last Lord's Day being the 7th Instant, I preach'd again to them in the Forenoon and Afternoon, upon part of the Epistle for the Day, viz. 1 Pet. 2. 11. Dearly beloved, I beseech you as Strangers and Pilgrims, abstain from Fleshly Lusts, which war against the Soul.

From which Words I shew'd,

I. What is meant by Fleshly Lusts, viz.

1st, All sensual Desires especially, denominated under these, Adultery, Fornication, Lasciviousness, Uncleanness, Filthiness, Lewdness, Wantonness, &c. which the Carnal Mind is fill'd with.

2dly, All Sins in general, which are called the Works of the Flesh, and of which we find a black Catalogue, Eph. 5. 19, 20, & 21. In the Front whereof are placed the Lusts of the Flesh.

I. The Apostle's Dehortation from those Fleshly Lusts: which Dehortation he introduces with this most pathetick, tender, and affectionate Compellation, Dearly Beloved, and which he backs and fortifies with a two-fold Argument, taken from these weighty and pressing Considerations, viz.

1st, That Christians are, and should therefore look upon themselves as Strangers and Pilgrims here, not only with respect to some particular Place or Countrey they may be driven to; but with respect to the whole World, in which they are indeed but Sojourners and Passengers, travelling towards their own proper Country, which is Heaven.

2dly, That those Fleshly Lusts are directly opposite to our great and spiritual Interest. They war against the Soul. 1st. They stain and defile the Soul in its Celestial Beauty and Perfections. 2dly, They hinder it from its noble Operations. 3dly, They deprive it of its surpassing Comforts in this World, and most glorious Rewards in the next. In all which respects, Carnal and Fleshly Lusts make War against the Soul, and will (if not timely and strongly oppos'd and repell'd) utterly subdue and destroy it.

Here I gave some Directions for Remedy against those Fleshly Lusts.

And having inlarged upon these Heads and Particulars, I concluded (as I did all other my Discourses on this melancholy Occasion) with particular Exhortations suitable to the State of the Condemned Persons; whom I also visited and pray'd with on the Week-Days, both in the Morning and Afternoon, from the time of their Condemnation to this Day of their Execution. And in my Conferences with them, I endeavoured, among other things, to make them sensible of the indispensable Obligation they were under, of making a free and ingenuous Confession of their Sins, chiefly those for which they were to die. Upon which they open'd themselves to me as follows.

I. William Fox , condemned for breaking the House of Mr. Thomas Walters . He said, That he was about 25 years of Age, born in the City of London , and a Freeman of it. That he was bound to a Carpenter , with whom he served out his time, and then went to Sea , where he served in the Carpenters Crew on Board several of HER MAJESTY's Ships, viz. the Vanguard, the Royal Catherine, &c. That he was making Preparations to go to Sea again very quickly, when he happened to be enticed by John Webb whom he had known at Sea, and Benjamin Carr (an Acquaintance and Companion of Webb's, but a perfect Stranger to him,) to join with them in a Robbery by them lately committed on the High Way about Rumford in Essex . I asking him whether they had any Design upon any particular Person, he told me he knew not what their Design was otherwise than to set on any Person they should meet with. He thinks that was their Design; and they prevailed with him to assist them therein, as he did. He confessed to me, that his pleading GUILTY to the Indictment of Burglary laid against him in the Old Baily, was not because he knew he should be cast upon it; for he said, he thought there was not sufficient Evidence to prove that Fact upon him; but he confess'd it, that he might not go into Essex to be try'd for that Robbery beforementioned, and by his receiving Sentence of Death here, prevent Benjamin Carr in the Benefit he expected to have received from turning Evidence against him there. He own'd he had then the greatest Antipathy and Aversion imaginable against the said Carr, and on the next Lord's Day after his Condemnation, he express'd a very great Uneasiness in seeing him in the Chappel: but afterwards he said, he freely forgave him, and was in perfect Charity with him. He confess'd he had been a loose Liver, and much neglected the Duties of Religion, and the Concern of his own Soul; saying, he was very sorry, and begg'd Pardon of God and Man for all the Offences he had committed; and that now he abhorr'd Sin to that degree, that he hoped, if he were to live, he should never take Delight in it. While under Condemnation, he behaved himself with that Modesty, Tractableness, and Devotion, that became a Man under his melancholy Circumstances. And when he was approaching to his Death, he appear'd as one that had the Hopes of a better Life. He pray'd, that his Death might be a Warning to all other Sinners, that they might timely repent, and thereby avoid their Condemnation and Destruction. He said, he wish'd he could make full Amends to the Persons he had any ways injured, and pray'd God to bless them; and he declared, that he dy'd in Charity with his greatest Enemies, and with all Mankind; and that he knew not, nor had any thing else to declare, that might be of use to the World. At his Desire, I preach'd last Night another Sermon to him and the other Condemned Persons, taking for my Text these Words of the Apostle, - It is appointed unto Men once to die; but after this the Judgment.

II. John Linvill , condemned for breaking the House of Mr. John Brampton . He said, he was about 28 years of Age, born in the Parish of Stepney , bound Apprentice to a Point maker in White-Fryers : That his Master dying when he had served but little of his time, he left off that Trade, and went to Sea ; where he served His late and Her present Majesty on board several Ships of War, viz. the Royal Catherine, the Sterling-Castle, the Swiftsure, the Medway, the Hector, &c. and then went to Merchant Service on board the New Rochester, an East-India Ship. And afterwards leaving the Sea, he went to the Land-Service in HER MAJESTY's Guard , in the Regiment of the Right Honourable the Lord Cutts, under the Command of Capt. Hales. He at first denied the Fact for which he was condemned; but confess'd it at last, and owned himself to have been an ill Liver, and to have deserved Death long ago; who had not (till now) laid to Heart the Heinousness of his great and manifold Sins, so as to repent of them. He was very stupid and very ignorant in matters of Religion, and could not so much as read: but he was willing to be brought to a clearer Light, and desired my Instructions and Prayers.

III. Richard Dickman , condemned for the same Fact with the forenam'd John Linvill . He said he was 22 years of Age, born in the Parish of St. Giles Cripplegate . That his Occupation chiefly was to drive a Team of Horses : That he had been sometime at Sea on Board several Merchant-Men . He at first deny'd, but afterwards confess'd the Fact for which he was condemned, and said, he repented of all his Sins, and hoped he should Sin no more, as he had done, if he were to live again in the World. He was not very well acquainted with the Duties of Christianity, and had lived in a great Neglect of God's Service, which, he said, he did (according to his poor Capacity) pray God to forgive him. This was also the Expression of the forenamed John Linvill . But neither of these seemed to me, at first, so sensible of, and so well prepared for a future State, as William Fox ; tho' indeed, at last, they shewed some more Sense than before, of their Sins, and of God's Mercy, which they said, they hop'd to obtain thro' the infinite Merits of JESUS CHRIST. Both this Dickman and Linvil desired that the World would not (because of their Crime, and Punishment for it) reflect upon their Wives, who were very just and honest, and knew nothing of the Fact for which they are justly to die.

IV. Sylvester Harlackendon , Esq ; He was of the County of Kent, and near 27 years of Age, and One of that Ancient Society, the Honourable Band of Gentlemen Pensioners . I have reserved this Gentlemen for the last, because I waited for that Change, which I all along did (but I am afraid he did not) pray God to work in him. When in my frequent Visits to him, I laid before him the Consideration of a future, eternal State, representing to him, on the one hand, the endless Misery of Hell; and on the other, the everlasting Happiness and Glory of Heaven; and shewing him from Reason and Scripture, the Certainty of these things, and how to avoid the former, and obtain the latter, by a serious and earnest Application to God for his Grace, that we may see and abhor the Wickedness of our Sins, and repent, and be stirr'd up to the Love of our Gracious Heavenly Father, &c. He artificially endeavoured to elude and divert the Discourse of this, and fell upon asking me several Sceptick Questions about the Existence of the Soul, viz. What it was? Where it was seated? Whether it grew up and decayed with the Body? - &c. Whereby he discover'd his Atheistical Principles; to which having given Answers for his present Satisfaction and Conviction, I then told him, it would be much better and happier for him to employ his Thoughts in what had a special Relation to the quieting of his Mind and procuring his Pardon with God. To this he reply'd, he was mighty quiet and easie in himself, and felt no manner of Trouble; which, to him, was a sure Sign of his being in a good State. Which he having said, and at the same time express'd no Sorrow for the heinous Crime of Murther, for which he was justly condemned, nor for any other the great Sins he had committed; I told him, that I plainly perceived the Devil was busie with him, and endeavoured to full him a-sleep, that so, by making him easie here, he might make him miserable for ever hereafter. Upon this, I had a long and repeated Discourse with him, and used the best Arguments I could to undeceive him of his Erroneous and Atheistical Notions, and I desired a worthy and dignified Divine (upon an Opportunity that offer'd) to speak to him, which he did: But nothing would work upon him; and he was so far from repenting of any Sin he had done, that he stood to his own Justification, and would not so much as own it was a base and a wicked thing for him to have slain a Man. Though it was not without great Difficulty, that he was brought up to the Chappel to hear the Word of God, and pray in Publick; yet he desired me to see him in Private as often as I could, which I did. He was very civil and very patient in bearing with my Admonitions. But I am afraid, neither they, nor any thing of that kind offer'd him by others, had much influence upon him. He would not declare plainly and freely what was his Belief of God, and of another World; and whether he had Faith in Christ, and repented of any Sin he had committed. He said his Thoughts were best known to himself, and he was very easie in them. He did not, nor indeed was he fit to receive the Holy Sacrament of the Lord's-Supper; and seem'd very well contented to go out of the World without it, and was unconcerned to hear, that his wilful and obstinate Neglect of preparing for it, might prove his eternal Ruine.

This Day they were carry'd (viz. Fox, Linvill, and Dickman, in a Cart, and Mr. Harlackendon in the Coach with me) to the Place of their Execution, where I attended them for the last time; and after some pressing Exhortations to them, that they would lift up their Hearts to God, and stir up themselves to the greatest Desire of his Grace. I pray'd with them; which they all of them desired I should do. But Mr. Harlackendon seem'd not to join very heartily with us, and was now very stupid; and though I spoke to him particularly of the great Concern of his Soul (as I did all along in the Coach, when he was riding towards his last Stage in this World) yet he would give me little or no answer, that could encline me to any hopes of his apprehending clearly the State he was now or hereafter should be in. The other Three express'd the greatest Zeal and Fervour in their Application to God for Mercy, and desired the Prayers of the Standers by for them; and that all might take Warning by them. When they had said this, I discoursed them again; I pray'd a second time, and rehearsed the Articles of the Christian Faith, and sung some Penitential Psalms with them. Which being done, and they admonished again (especially Mr. Harlackendon) to recommend their Souls to God through JESUS CHRIST, I left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allow'd them. Then the Cart drew away, as they were each of them, viz. Fox, Linvill, and Dickman, calling upon God with a loud Voice, Lord have Mercy upon me! O forgive my Sins! Open thy Gates of Heaven! Receive me unto thee! O blessed Lord Jesus come! and such like Ejaculatory Expressions. But as for Mr. Harlackendon, he was only observ'd to move his Lips; but no Body could tell what he said, or whether indeed he utter'd any Word. He dy'd the hardest of any of them; his Life visibly remaining in him a great while after the Cart was drawn away. I never saw any Man so long a dying as he was.

This is all the Account, which (in this Shortness of Time) can be given by

Wed. May. 10. 1704.

PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate .

Advertisements.

AN Account of the Progress of the Reformation of Manners in England, Scotland and Ireland, and other Parts of Europe and America, &c. The Twelfth Edition Enlarg'd.

THE Necessary Duty of Family-Prayer, and the deplorable Condition of Prayerless Families consider'd. In a Letter from a Minister to his Parishioners. With Prayers for their Use.

THE Manifesto of the Cevennois. Shewing the true Reasons which have constrained the Inhabitants of the Cevennes to take up Arms. Dedicated to the Dauphine. Price 2d.

A Discourse concerning Sins of Infirmity and wilful Sins, with another of Restitution. By the Right Reverend Richard, late Lord Bishop of Bath and Wells. Price 3 d.

All Four Sold by Joseph Downing in Bartholomew-Close .

A Specifick Powder for the king's-Evil, which hath been found, by a long Experience, to have an extraordinary Success in curing that Disease; is to be had with a Paper of Directions, at Mr. Baker's Bookseller at Mercers-Chappel in Cheapside. Price Five Shillings the Box, containing seven Doses.

RObert Whitledge , Bookbinder , now living at the Bible in Creed-Lane , within Ludgate , where all Booksellers, and others, may be furnished with all sorts of Bibles and Common-Prayers, large and small, with Cuts or without, Rul'd or Unrul'd, Bound in Turkey Leather, extraordinary or plain, or unbound. Also the Statutes at large, and Articles and Canons of the Church of England; Tate and Brady's new Version of the Singing Psalms, the Common-Prayer in French, the new Book of Rates compleat; and also all Books neatly Bound.

A Medicine for the Cure of the Stone and Gravel, of much greater Certainty than any yet offer'd in Publick; having been experienced in divers Bodies, effectually to Dissolve and Reduce the STONE into Slime in 20 or 30 days time, clearing the Kidneys of Gravel; and in any Fit of the Stone or Gravel to give Ease in the most Raging Pains, and procures Freedom of Urine in a few hours time. To be had of a Chymist at the Golden-Ball and Crown in New-Street without Bishops-Gate, London.

London, Printed by J. Downing in Bartholomew-Close near West-Smithfield, 1704.

