THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF BARNABY HORAN , Who was executed at TYBURN , On MONDAY the 4August1755, TOGETHER WITH The Two Malefactors, executed at Tyburn of Monday, July 28. BEING THE Fourth EXECUTION in the Mayoralty OF THE RIGHT HONOURABLE STEPHEN THEODORE JANSSEN , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON.

THE ORDINARY OF NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession Etc.

BARNABY HORNE , otherwise HORAN , was indicted, for that he, being a subject of Great Britain, on the thirteenth of August, in the twenty-sixth year of his present majesty's reign, with force and arms, did procure Alexander Plunket , who being at that time a subject of our sovereign lord the king, to enlist and enter himself into the French king's service, as a soldier , he being a foreign prince, without leave or licence first obtained, Etc.-He was charged a second time for unlawfully retaining him the said Plunket, with intent to cause him to enlist, or enter himself to serve the French king.-He was also charged a third time, for that he did feloniously procure the said Plunket to embark on board a certain ship or vessel, with intent to be enlisted to serve the French king as soldier. Either of which charges being fully proved, subjected him, by the statute in that case made and provided, to capital punishment.

It appeared, according to the evidence against Horan, that Alexander Plunket came from Ireland about three years ago, in company

with some more of his countrymen; the latter being only labouring men, soon got employment, but he having been bred a dyer, chose to look for business among the trade to which he had been brought up, as well because more money was to be got by it, as that it was in that way easier earned.

Plunket had not been in London more than ten days, when (in August 1752) he accidentally met in Wapping with one Fielder, a countryman, whom he had known in Ireland : after the common salutations, fielder took Plunket to the ship alehouse on Tower-hill , then occupied by Horan. A pot of beer was called for, and the landlord joining their company, ask'd Plunket several questions relative to his country and profession; to which the latter giving satisfactory answers, Horan concluded with giving him some friendly and indeed very wholesome advice, with respect to his conduct. Soon after that conversation Fielder went away, telling his newly arrived countryman that he now knew where to meet with him [Fielder.] at any time, if he should want him.

Upon Fielder's departure Horan again applied himself to his new acquaintance, telling him he had recollected a person who wanted such a young fellow, and who could employ him in a very good business, Plunket, unwilling to remain longer idle, immediately ask'd who it was? To whom Horan readily replied, it was himself, and, at the same time, briskly ask'd him how he would like to go a smuggling? The young fellow was surprized at the proposal, and objected the danger of the undertaking: Horan endeavoured to dissipate his fears, by telling him, his method was not to bring goods home, but to carry them abroad, to such places where there was the best prospect of a good market. But Plunket, still reluctant to engage in such an employment, continued to urge the danger and hazard attending it, adding moreover, that he had no money to go on with it: the seducer obviated this objection, by telling him that he had money enough, that what they were going upon would not employ more than eight or nine days, when he might return, and he should be handsomely rewarded: that after having experienced it, if he disliked it, he might do as he pleased.

Upon the condition of so speedy a return, Plunket consented to go with him. Matters being thus far settled, the deluded young fellow, who had not come willingly into the project, appearing somewhat thoughtful, Horan affected a good deal of concern for him, asking

what ailed him, that he seemed melancholy? and whether he was sick? To which Plunket replied in the negative. Perhaps then, says Horan, you may want some money, and immediately threw five shillings on the table. The former refused this offer, tilling him, that he had enough for his present purposes; but Horan insisting on his putting the money in his pocket, he at last complied, very little thinking at that time how fatally this present was intended.

The next morning they set out on this pretended expedition, and accordingly went on board a Gravesend boat to Greenhithe , where they staid drinking together the greatest part of the night. Early in the morning they proceeded on their journey, and the same evening arrived at a publick house, the sign of the George, on this side of Canterbury . The next morning, as they were going into Canterbury, Horan expressed some fear, that two strangers being seen together in that city, might subject them to an examination (a strong persuasion this, that he had been before accustomed to the same, or as bad practices); wherefore he directed Plunket to follow him at some distance, but within sight; which he accordingly did, and overtook his wicked companion out of the city; after which, they walked together, and took their abode for that night at the sign of the City of Calais in Dover .

While they were at the last mentioned house, the master of a vessel came, and ask'd if there were any passengers to go over the water, telling them to hold themselves in readiness, for that he should fail with the first fair wind next morning: whereupon Horan, the more effectually to secure his prey, desired Plunket to go on board, and secure a good place, and that he would follow presently; which he accordingly did, with some other passengers; when they set fail, and a brisk gale carried them in about three hours to Calais.

Here they went to a publick-house, where Horan bid Plunket call for what he liked, while he went into another room, to a gentleman he pretended to have business with. This gentleman, it afterwards appeared, was one Fitzpatrick, an officer belonging to general Ruth's regiment, an Irish brigade in the French service; with whom Horan staid and din'd, an English gentlewoman being also in company with them: she hearing the conversation that passed between them, was curious to see the person they had been talking of; and from her it was that Plunket was first informed of the baseness of his com-

panion, and his own impending misfortune.

She plainly told him he was sold, and to what purpose: the deceived youth was greatly amazed at what he heard, but was unwilling to give credit to it; However, he went immediately to his betrayer, and reproached him with his villainous intention; Horan calmly bid him be contented, and go into the room from whence he came, and call for any thing he wanted; at the same time denying any such design.

But it was not long before the mask was taken off, Horan came to Plunket, and desired him to come into the room where he had been sitting with Fitzpatrick, who was still there. As soon as Plunket entered, the captain accosted him with great complaisance, and endeavoured to prevail on him to serve willingly; which he constantly refused; till Horan inlisted that he actually was insisted in the French service, by virtue of the five shillings he had given him; and the captain told him he had no other choice, but either to serve six years as a soldier , or to live the same space in a dark dungeon, on only bread and water. Reduced to this miserable dilemma, he preferred the former to the latter, and accordingly joined the regiment at Dunkirk ; in which service he continued till the eleventh of last April, when he deserted, and came to Ostend ; where he acquainted the English consul with his case, who sent him to Dover on board the packet.

Upon his arrival at Dover he was taken by a press-gang, and put on board a ship, where he was detain'd thirty-three days, till he was sent for by order of the government; when he was put on board a tender, under the care of a lieutenant, who delivered him at Sir Thomas Robinson 's office, from whence he was put under the care of a messenger.

Such was Plunket's narrative, which he told freely, and with all the signs of truth; having never varied in his several examinations before the mayor of Dover , at the secretary of state's office, and at the Old Bailey . Two women were brought to invalidate his testimony, who swore positively to having seen him in London last February was twelvemonth; but their evidence was effectually destroyed by the oath of a person, who being accidentally named, was immediately sent for, and proved Plunket's being with the regiment at the times and places he had sworn to.

With respect to Horan himself, being a papist , he did not think fit to communicate much to me: the chief of what I could learn from him is, that he was about forty-

five years of age, born in the county of Westmeath , in the kingdom of Ireland , and that he was bred to the sea . His irons were knock'd off, he was halter'd, and just steping into the cart with the two malefactors executed last Monday sevennight, when a respite came for him, the surprize of which greatly overpowered him, insomuch that a surgeon was obliged to be sent for to bleed him: but as soon as he had recovered he grew chearful, and laughing, said, he had bit his undertaker. It was strongly reported that some other person would appear, and acknowledge himself the man who trepann'd Plunket, which is said to have been one reason for the short respite he was indulged with. The lenity of our government was conspicuous, in affording him an opportunity of evincing his innocence, had he really been so; but when it was found to be merely pretended, Publick Justice demanded the sacrifice: for surely there cannot be greater crimes than robbing one's own country of its natural strength, and proportionally encreasing our enemies, betraying our countrymen into an almost Turkish slavery, and rivetting in them civil and religious principles, inconsistent with the well-being of our happy constitution both in church and state. All these are the immediate consequences of the offence for which this criminal deservedly suffered; for though he persisted in an obstinate denial of the fact even to the last, as I am inform'd, (for he did not think fit to accept of my service in his last moments) yet there are persons now in London who declare their having seen him in France , and mention one Molloy as his agent in these and other affairs, living at Dunkirk .

