THE Ordinary of NEWGATE HIS ACCOUNT OF

The Behaviour, Confessions, and Last Speeches of the Malefactors that were Executed at TYBURN, on Monday the 23d of July, 1716.

Together with the Behaviour of Mr. WILLIAM PAUL , AND JOHN HALL , Esq;

Who were Executed at Tyburn for High-Treason, on Friday the 13th instant.

AT the General Sessions held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Baily, on Wednesday the 4th, Thursday the 5th, Friday the 6th, and Saturday the 7th of July, 1716, Eight Persons, viz Five Men and Three Women, who were Try'd for, and found Guilty of several Capital Crimes, receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly, and Two others were call'd to their former Judgment. Of all these Ten Malefactors, Five being Repriev'd, viz, the Three Women for their Pregnancy, and Two of the Men by HIS MAJESTY'S Gracious Pardon; Five are now order'd for Execution.

While they lay in this dismal State of an approaching shameful Death, which by their heinous Crimes they had brought upon themselves, I constantly visited them twice every Day, either in the Condemn'd Hold, or in the Chapel of Newgate, where I read Prayer and the Word of GOD, which I explain'd to them; endeavouring (by all the proper Arguments I could draw from it) to bring them into a sense of their great Offences, and Repentance and Sorrow for them, with a sincere Desire of leaving off all their evil Ways, reforming their wicked Lives, and rectifying all things that were amiss in Thought, Word, and Deed, by the Power of Divine Grace, which they ought to implore of GOD, whose Mercy was so great towards Sinners, that he shew'd Himself always ready, upon their humble acknowledgment and forsaking of their Sins, to grant them Pardon and Life, yea, Eternal Life and Happiness with Him in Glory. This I daily laid before them.

Price Two-pence.

And on the Lord's Day the 8th instant, I preach'd to them both in the Forenoon and Afternoon, on part of one of the Psalms for that Morning Service, viz. Psal. 39. 12, & 13. Hear my Prayer, O Lord, and give Ear unto my Cry; Hold not Thy Peace at my Tears: For I am a Stranger with Thee, and a Sojourner, as all my Fathers were. O spare me, that I may recover Strength, before I go hence, and be no more.

Which Words, together with their Context, having first explain'd in general, I then in particular laid down, and enlarg'd upon, these Three Propositions, resulting therefrom, viz.

I. That all the Sons and Daughters of Men are but Strangers and Travellers upon Earth, as David professes, both with respect to himself, and for all others before him, in these Words of the Text. I am a Stranger with Thee, and a Sojourner, as all my Fathers were.

II. That from thence it follows, That as this Life is transitory, and our Abode in this World but of a short Continuance; so we ought (according to the Apostle's Direction) to set our Affection on things above, not on things on the Earth, raising our Thoughts and Desires to that Blessed Life which is to come, Eternal in the Heavens, Col. 3. 2. & 2 Cor. 5. 1.

III. & lastly, That the best Way for us to take, in order to our attainment to that glorious Place which we should look upon as our Native Country and Everlasting Abode) is to go mourning all the Day long for our Sins, and make this Life a Life of Prayers and Tears, earnestly imploring GOD's Mercy, Pardon, and Grace, as the Royal Psalmist does express it in Psal. 38. 6. and in the Text, in which he thus calls upon GOD; Hear my Prayer, O Lord, &c.

On the Lord's Day, the 15th instant, I preach'd again to them, both in the Morning and Afternoon, upon these Words, taken out of the Epistle appointed for that Day, viz. Rom. 6. 21. What Fruit had ye in those Things whereof ye are now asham'd? For the end of those Things is Death.

In my Explanation of which Words, I first observ'd in general what they refer to, and then in particular I shew'd my Auditory the important Truths contain'd therein, which are these; viz.

I. That the Sinner can have but little (or rather no real) Profit or Satisfaction from his Sins, though he may be, and often is, so blinded by them, as to fancy that there is Pleasure and Advantage in them.

II. That nothing but Shame and Confusion can be reapt from (as being the Fruit naturally produced by) a sinful Life.

III. That Death, even Eternal Death and Damnation will be the sad End and woful Portion of every obstinate and unrelenting Sinner.

IV. That Men's future Judgment after this Life is certain and inevitable.

V. ult. That the Sinner, who shall have neglected to repent sincerely, and in due time, will find that Judgment most dreadful and intolerable.

Yesterday being the 22d instant, and the bird and Last Lord's Day they had, I preach'd to them again, both in the Morning and Afternoon, and my Text was, Jer. 5. part of the 3d Verse - Thou hast stricken them, but they have not grieved; Thou hast consumed them, but they have refused to receive Correction: They have made their Faces harder than a Rock; they have refused to return.

From which Words, first explain'd in general, I shew'd in particular,

I. Te great Sin here complain'd of by the Prophet; and that was the Incorrigibleness and Impenitence of the Jews under GOD's Judgments.

II. The Cause of all the Evils and Calamities sent upon Men.

III. The Expectation of GOD from those he visits with His Judgments.

IV. What they must finally look for, that do refuse to receive Correction, and to return: who instead of being soften'd, are rather harden'd, by those Judgments.

V. ult. The Aggravation of Sin when it is universal, not only found among the most Ignorant, bnt practis'd also by them who are above that Capacity, and might understand their Duty better.

Upon those Heads I discours'd at large, and concluded all my Sermons on this melancholy Occasion, with particular Directions and Admonitions suitable to the Condemn'd; exhorting and urging them (by plain Arguments) to repent, and flee from the Wrath to come.

As I taught them in publick, so likewise I did (at sit times) in private: And there it was that I examin'd them (each by himself) and receiv'd from them the respective Accounts concerning their former Lives and present Dispositions, which follow.

1. George Morgan , alias Williams , who had formerly been convicted of a capital Crime; receiv'd Sentence of Death accordingly, and afterwards obtain'd His Majesty's gracious Pardon, which he pleaded at the Old-Baily on the 6th of August, 1715; having neglected to perform the Condition of that Pardon, which was, That he should (within six Months) transport himself out of the King's Dominions in Europe: and having also of late committed some Facts of the same nature with that he was then condemn'd for, the Court call'd him to his former Sentence, and awarded Execution against him; which former Fact was, the stealing of 70 l. in Money, eight Gold Rings, and two Stone ones, out of the House of Mr. David Green , on the 18th of March, 1711/171: He said, he was 23 Years of age, born at a Place call'd Bielton , near Bristol ; and, That he was brought up (and serv'd his Apprentiship) with a Grocer there , and was made Free of that Corporation. He confess'd his Crimes, and the Justice of of his Sentence, and lamented the miserable Condition he had brought himself into, by keeping Company with a vicious Woman and such wicked People, and other ways offending GOD and his Neighbour; for which he could now make no other Amends than beg Pardon, as he heartily did.

2. John Cane , alias , which latter he said was his right Name. He was with the foregoing Morgan pardon'd in August last, being then under Condemnation for breaking the House of Mr. William Stephens , and stealing thence 2 Gawze Handkerchiefs and other Goods, on the 8th of July, 1715: But (like the other) forfeiting his Pardon, by his not Transporting himself within six Months after it, and returning to the commission of new Crimes, he was now order'd for Execution. He said, he was 19 Years of age, born at Bristol : That he went to Sea very young, and was at first a Cabin-Boy , and afterwards a Servant (a sort of Butler) to Caps. Stacy, Commander of the Eastwell Pink. This is the Account he gave of himself, who confess'd the Justice of his Sentence, and begg'd Pardon for all his Sins.

3. Timothy Dunn , condemn'd for being concern'd in the Facts which William White , John Chapman , and Tho. Thurland , were executed for, on the 8th of June last; which Facts were, the assaulting and robbing Mr. John Gough , &c. He said, he was 27 Years of age, born in Ireland , and had liv'd several Years in and about London , where he was for some time a Gentleman's Servant ; afterwards he serv'd several Years in the Lord Inchlquin's Regiment , and being taken ill of a Rheumatism, he obtain'd of the late Queen a Pension of 18 l. 5 s. per ann. which he receiv'd for three Years together from Chelsea-College: That being well again, he

listed himself into the first-Regiment of Foot-Guards , in which Service he said he was when apprehended. He would not at first, but did at last, acknowledge he was justly condemn'd; and (upon my putting him in mind of it) he own'd also, That he had formerly receiv'd Sentence of Death, for stealing a Silver Watch from Mr. John Smart , on the 19th of January, 1713/1714; and, That he was Repriev'd on the 14th of April following, and afterwards pardon'd; which Pardon he pleaded at the Old-baily on Saturday the 6th of August, 1715; the Condition whereof was, That he should (within six Months from that time) transport himself out of His Majesty's Dominions in Europe , which he did not, and so met with fresh Temptations from his wicked Companions, that brought him at last to this shameful End. He did not positively deny his being concern'd with the foresaid White, Chapman, and Thurland, in the Murder of Mrs. Knapp, but would not plainly own it; neither would he be persded to make any particular Confession of all his Crimes, he being (us himself dlar'd) one that had been brought up, and desir'd to die, in the Romish Religion. Upon my asking him, Whether he was concern'd in a certain Robbery committed near Hamstead, upon two Servants belonging to Gentlemen, taking from them a Silver Watch, some Money, and 3 Horses, in April last He said, he knew something of it; and, that the Watch was sold to a very honest Gentleman (now in the Country) who was not appriz'd how they came by it. And that's all he wou'd say.

4. William Davis , condemn'd for breaking the House of Mr. Hugh Potter , and stealing thence a Stuff-Gown and other Goods, on the 20th of June last. He said, he was 26 Years of age, born in the Parish of St. James, Westminster ; That his right Name's was Walter Canteell and never went by any other Name: That he had us'd the Sea (on and off) about 18 years: That his Father design'd him for a Tradesman, and to that end bound him Apprentice to an Upholsterer in the Pell-mell ; but he did not continue long with him. He own'd he had been very extravagant, and very much addicted (among other the Sins of his Youth) to the keeping. Company with lewd and dissolute Women, which was so great a Grief, to his Mother (when alive) that she caus'd him to be kept in Prison for sometime, to try whether such a Confinement could break him off and reform him; but it did not. He at first deny'd the Fact his now stood condemn'd for; but afterwards own'd it, and begg'd Pardon for it, and other Sins he ever committed. Being (for the most part of the time he lay under this Condemnation) very ill of a Fever, and weak, he was not very fit, to be much spake to, and less to give any Answer to what Questions were ask'd him.

Luke Pritchard , condemn'd for assaulting Mr. William Smith on the Highway, and (with the Assistance of another Person) taking from him a piece of Bacon of six pound weight, and 2 s. 6 d. value, on the 28th of May last. He said, he was about 33 Years of age, born at Redrith , had been bound to and serv'd, part of his Apprentiship with a Waterman , plying below Bridge, and thence went to Sea , where he serv'd for the space of about 18 Years on board several Men of War, and Merchantmen. He would not own the Fact he was condemn'd for; but declar'd he had been a great Sinner, and pray'd God be merciful unto his Soul.

This Day they were carry'd from Newgate (in two Carts) to the usual Place of Execution, where I attended them for the last time; and after having discharg'd my last Duty to their departing Souls, by Exhortations, Prayers, Singing of Penitential Psalms, making them rehearse the Apostles-Creed, and finally recommending them to GOD's unbounded Mercy, I left them to their private Devotions, for which they had some time allotted them. They warn'd the People to avoid such a shameful Death, by living a better Life than they had done. After this their Faces being cover'd, and then the Cart drawing away, they were turn'd off; each of them crying unto GOD in these and the like Ejaculations: Lord, have Mercy upon me! Christ, have Mercy upon me! Lord, save me! Lord, receive me! &c.

I find an Account was expected from me concerning the Behaviour of Mr. William Paul , and John Hall , Esq; who were Executed at Tyburn for High-Treason, on Friday the 15th instant, about whom many Questions are daily ask'd me; These are to satisfy all whom it may concern, That a those Persons did all the while (under their Confinement) decline the giving me any Opportunity of discoursing them, and were unwilling to receive those wholesome Admonitions I offer'd them; so I had not so much to say of them, as might be worth the writing a Paper for them done, and publishing it by itself; and therefore thought it proper to defer it to their Time and Place, to impart (in a few Words) what I observ'd concerning them.

MR. Paul, a Clergyman , and of late a Member of the onuring Church, otherwise the True k Donuring Church of England (to use his and Mr. Hall's own Expressions) would never enter into the Verge of Arguing concerning his mistaken Principles; for when I would shew him how contrary his Actions had been to those plain Precepts which we have in Rom. 13. 1. Tit. 3.1. 1 Pet. 2. 13, &c. all the Answer he gave me to this, was, That I took those Texts in one sense, and he in another: But indeed, it seems by his disloyal Practices he was as far from having a right Understanding of them, us unwilling to be better inform'd.

When he and Mr. Hall were carry'd to Tyburn, as soon as they were taken out of the Sledge into the Cart, they desir'd to have a Minister of their own Communion (as they call'd it) to pray with them, which was granted, and accordingly such a Minister (whoever he was, or whence he came, I know not) stept into the Cart, and pray'd by them a considerable time, and then suddenly went off.

No sooner had he made his Exit, but Mr. Paul began to read his Speech; wherein us he was reflecting (most unworthily) on the late happy Revolution, and the Glorious Instruments of it, sparing neither Crown'd Heads, nor the Bishops and Ministers that were legally Consecrated and Ordain'd since that Revolution, nor any others that had taken an Oath to it; the said Mr.Paul going on at that rate, he was desir'd to forbear such unbecoming Expressions, not fit to be heard: Upon this he stopt; and he and Mr. Hall deliver'd, each of 'em, a Paper to the Sheriff. This done, I went up to pray by them; but Mr. Paul being then on his Knees reading a Prayer in writing ther in his own or another's Hand I can't tell) I would not disturb go on in his reading. When he had done, and was got up, both to him and Mr. Hall, telling them, that I was com their Souls, which I heartily recommended to GOD that He would be pleas'd to enlighten their dark Mi deluded Hearts, that they might acknowledg the Tru and ask Pardon of Him (our Good and Gracious GOD offended, and likewise of the King and these Nations, their Party, had so much disturb'd. And here I advis'd People to be Loyal and truly Religious, taking care not in Rebellion and unsound Principles, lest they should be b ful and untimely Death, as themselves were now come to omplying with those my Admonitions, they still persisted tenacr Way, endeavouring to justifie their Actions to the Standers-by, who seem'd to be so far from liking, that they shew'd a great Abhorrence of, their wicked Practices and scandalous Speeches.

I did what I could to take off their Thoughts from these, and turn them to better Objects, offering to pray with them; but they were not very desirous I should; neither would they kneel at my Prayers, as they did at their Nonjuring Minister's. Upon which I told them, that since they were unwilling to kneel down with me, I would stay till they were ty'd up; which I did, and then pray'd.

When I had begun to pray, I perceiv'd that Mr. Paul was affected, and would fain then have kneel'd, but a Person standing by him, told him he could not. As for Mr. Hall, he would not at all join in Prayer with me, but all the while turn'd his Back upon me; a Thing which no Protestant ever did before off such an Occasion. This oblig'd me (after I had done praying) to tell him, Mr Hall, methinks you might, have been more serious, and more civil: What hurt do to you, in imploring God's Mercy to your said? One would think you might very well have join'd with me herein, &c. Having said this (to which he made no Reply) and given them both some further Admonitions, and begg'd of GOD, of His infinite Goodness, through CHRIST, to convert and save them, I left 'em to their Recollection and private Devotion. Then the Cart drawing away, and they being turn'd off, the People gave a mighty Shout, and with loud Acclamations said, GOD Save KING GEORGE. To which I say, Amen.

This is all the Account here to be given of those Malefactors, by me, PAUL LORRAIN , Ordinary of Newgate .

Monday, July 23. 1716.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

THis is to give Notice to all Gentlemen, Booksellers, and others, That there is lately publish'd a new Sett of Cuts, adapted to several sizes of Common prayers, all new Designs, by Mr. Gocree of Amsterdam, engrav'd by P. Vandergucht. Likewise Mr. Sturt's Cuts. Sold by ROBERT WHITLEDGE , at the Bible and Ball in Ave-Maria-Lane , near Ludgate , where may be had all sorts of Bibles either in Folio, Quarto, Octavo, Twelves, or other sizes; Commonprayers in Folio, for the life or Churches Common prayers in Octavo and Twelves. A New Edition of the Book of Hem; all neatly bound. T Works of all sizes. Latin and Welsh Brady's new new Supple Sacrament. urgy. The es BP Bevate. Thoughts, eat Pocket Letter, Journeys to the in Latin and English Verse. werrily (Tho' near 100 Years ago) compos'd; found among some old musty Books, that had a long time lain by in a Corner, and now at last made publick. To which is added Bessy Bell.

est quem quards ille quem requir'd, Zot notus in Orbe Britannus. Hor.

Barnabas Ebriu.

Sold by, S illidge under Searle's Gate, Lincolns. Inn New-square; also by S. Ballard in Little-Britain, J. Graves in St. James-street, and J. Walthoe against the Royal Exchange, and A. Betsworth in Pater-noster Row.

Next Week will be publish'd in Pocket Volumes.

THE Way of the Town; The Covent-Garden Heiress: The Character of a Bean and the Silver Piss -pot. All by the same Author, pr. The 2d Edition of the History of Cuckolds and Cuckold-makers for 200 Years past, in 2 vols. with a Key to both. The Lives and Adventures of the Gamrs and Sharpers for 50 Years; or, the Art of Gaming. The History of the Foolish, Wicked Wife, and Good Kings. This Day is publish'd, Posthumous Works in Prose and Verse, written in the Time of the Civil Wars, and Reign of K. Charles II. By sam. Butler, Author of Hudibras; with a Key to Hudibras by Sir Roger L'Estrange , in 2 vol. Printed for Sam. Briscoe, R. Smith, G. Strahan, W. Taylor, J. Brown, J.Hooke, and J. Morphew near Stationers-Hall; where may be had the Fourth Edition of the works Mr. Tho Brown with Cuts and a Key to all the Volumes. The Works of the Duke of Buckingham, with Cuts, in Two Volumes. The Works of Longinus from the Greek. The Works of Petronius Arbiter, with Cuts, and a key. Also the Translation of Lucian's Works, in Four Volumes; with two New Dialogues never before printed; translated by the late Earl of Dorset. The Third Edition in Pocket-Volumes, of The History of the Lives of the most noted Highwaymen, Foot-pads, House-breakers, Shop-lifts and Cheats, of both Sexes in and about London, and other places of Great Britain, for above Fifty years last past. Wherein their most secret and unparallel'd barbarous Murders, Robberies, notorious Thefts, and unheard of Cheats are expos'd to the Publick, By Capt. Alexander Smith . The Works of Mr. Hcheringil of AllSaints, Colchester. The History of Priest-craft, Three Volumes. All Sold by J. Baker in PaterNoster-Row, and A. Dodd without Temple-bar.

