THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE'S ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, of the FIVE MALEFACTORS Who were executed at TYBURN On Wednesday the 7th of NOVEMBER, 1750.

BEING THE First EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Right Honble Francis Cokayne , Esq ; LORD-MAYOR of the CITY of LONDON .

NUMBER I. for the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed for, and sold by T. PARKER, in Jewin-street, and C. CORBETT, over-against St. Dunstan's Church, in Fleet-street, the only authorised Printers of the Dying Speeches.

M.DCC.L.

[Price Six-pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE's ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

BY Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held before the Right Honourable JOHN BLACHFORD , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London , the Lord Chief-Justice WILLES, and RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder , and others of his Majesty's Justices of OYER and TERMINER, and Jail-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City of London, and County of Middlesex, at Justice Hall, in the Old Bailey , on Wednesday the 12th, Thursday the 13th, Friday the 14th, Saturday the 15th, Monday the 17th, Tuesday the 18th, and Wednesday the 19th of September, in the twenty-fourth Year of his Majesty's Reign, WILLIAM RILEY was capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly. And, by Virtue of the King's Commission of the Peace, Oyer and Terminer, &c. before the Right Honourable JOHN BLACHFORD , Esq ; &c. Lord Chief-Justice LEE, Mr. Baron CLIVE, RICHARD ADAMS , Esq ; Recorder, and others, &c. on Wednesday the 17th, Thursday the 18th, and Friday the 19th of October, in the twenty-fourth Year of His Majesty's Reign, WILLIAM PRICE , MATTHIAS NICOLLS , GEORGE ANDERSON , ELIZABETH DAVIS , THOMAS ODELL , JOHN PRIOR , ROBERT BURRIDGE , GEORGE ROBINS , ROBERT DAVY , and THOMAS REYNOLDS , were capitally convicted, and received Sentence of Death accordingly.

The Attendance of the above unhappy Persons at Chapel was regular, unless hindred by Sickness, which most of them have been, more or less, affected with, excepting only Anderson and Prior; and when there, appeared devout, and with seeming Heartiness, and an audible Voice, generally join'd in Prayer.

A Gentleman of the Roman Catholick Persuasion and Church attended Reynolds, having been bred and educated in that Communion.

On Thursday the first Instant, Mr. Recorder attended the Lords of the Regency assembled in Council, and made the Report of ten Malefactors, when they were pleased to order William Riley , George Anderson , John Prior , George Robins , Thomas Reynolds , and Robert Davy , for Execution, on Wednesday the 7th Instant.

Elizabeth Davis was not reported, having pleaded Pregnancy, and being brought in by a Jury of Women quick with Child.

1. William Riley , was indicted for the Murder of Samuel Sutton in Tothill-Fields , by giving him a Wound in the Belly , September the 8th.

2. George Anderson , was indicted for stealing two Pieces of Silk Ribband, Val. 8 s. the Goods of James Thwaites , August the 8th.

3. George Robins , otherwise Jones , was indicted for stealing four Pieces of Silk for Handkerchiefs, Val. 7 l. the Goods of James Truby , in the Dwelling-House of Benjamin Wood , August 13 .

4. John Prior was indicted for robbing James Booker , on the King's Highway, of one Purse, one Penknife, and 3 s. and 6 d. in Money, Sept. 9th .

5. Robert Davy was brought to the Bar, and reminded of his Trial, (See No. 577 in the last Sessions Paper,) and asked what he had to say for himself, why Sentence of Death should not pass upon him. He desired he might have the Benefit of Clergy; but was told by the Court, he had it once before, and that there was a Statute Law in this Realm which forbid a Person to have it a second Time. To prove which, the Record of his Conviction was read, which was for stealing, on the 30th of April, in the twelfth Year of His present Majesty, sixty Pounds Weight of Tobacco, Val. 40 s. the Good of Persons unknown, in Company with Thomas Foster , tried at Justice Hall in the Old Bailey , Wednesday the 2d of May, and brought in guilty 4 s. and 10 d. and that then he prayed for the Benefit in that Case made and provided; therefore he was transported for the Term of seven Years, this being a Clergeable Felony.

Then the second Record was read, for stealing nine Elephants Teeth , the Goods of Christian Hilier , and Judgment was respited in September Sessions. In October Sessions, he was brought to the Bar, and the Identity of the Person being proved, the Jury found the Issue for the King, that the Prisoner was the same Person, and so Sentence of Death passed on him with the rest.

6. Thomas Reynolds was indicted for inlisting and detaining John Carnes , for the French King's Service, as a Soldier ,

without Leave or Licence before obtained June 13 .

On Tuesday came a Respite from the Duke of Bedford's Office, one of the principal Secretaries of State, for Robert Davy till the 26th Instant .

1. GEORGE ROBINS , otherwise JONES , aged thirty-five, was born at Bath , and was the Son of an Inn-keeper in that City. Coming young to London , he was bound ' Prentice to a Butcher , served out his Time, and was afterwards Servant to another Butcher in Clare-Market . About fifteen Years ago, he married the Daughter of a reputable Tradesman in the said Market, against the Consent of her Parents; who, nevertheless, set him up in Trade for himself, and first and last, he had of them above 300 l. He kept Shop some Years in the said Market; but being an idle, loose, and extravagant young Fellow, he failed, and about six or seven Years ago he went to Ireland ; from whence he returned, after the Affair of Mr. Annesly, to London , no better a Man than when he went away, but, if any thing, worse: Since which Time he took up the Trade of what is commonly called duffing Brandy, Tea, &c. about the Town , from House to House: But how for a Year or two last past, and upon what Trade he lived, no body can account but those who have suffered by his wicked Tricks. None of his old Acquaintance can tell how he lived; and tho' he lived in the Neighbourhood of some of his quondam Friends, in Adultery with a common Woman, they were Strangers to him, and his Actions, till since he has been convicted; and in this Way of Life he was so private, that they never heard of any thing felonious against him, till he was apprehended.

Those that knew him formerly, say he was always an obstinate self-willed Person; and that he was a half-witted, perverse Fellow, and so has he continued to the Day of his Death: Nor would all the Arguments made Use of by his Friends persuade him to think he had done any thing to deserve his Fate, notwithstanding there were near twenty Indictments for Facts of the same Nature ready to be preferred against him, should he have escaped from those two which were so justly found; from one of which he escaped by Means of a blundering Evidence, and of the other was convicted. The particular Circumstances of which are as follow:

About a Fortnight before the Robbery was committed upon Mr. Truby's Wife, Robins came to Truby, and told him, he would lay out some Money with him in Handkerchiefs, but that at that Time he had no Money.

About the Time he promised, he did call at Truby's, whose Wife was then in the Shop, and asked her to shew some Goods. She immediately rung a Bell for her Husband, who came down. Then Robins looked out a Parcel, to the Amount of above 7 l. and the Price was fixed upon the Goods. Says Robins, you must carry them to the King's-Arms, where my Horse has stood this Fortnight; my Wife is there, who is a better Judge of Goods than myself; if she approves of them, I will pay you for them. Sir, says Truby, I'm very dirty, but will shift me in five or six Minutes, and then I'll go with you. No, replied Robins, I can't stay; for myTime is overpast, and should have been at another Place before now; let your Wife go; upon which Truby sent his Wife with the Goods, but no Bill of Parcels, only a Note cast up what the Goods came to. Truby's Wife and Robins went into the King's-Arms Kitchen, where Mrs. Truby put the Goods upon the Dresser, and leant with her Elbow upon them. Robins called for a Quartern of Rum, and before it came, snatched the Goods from under her Elbow, and ran away. This was done August 13. And on the 3d of September, he put the Cheat upon Delawar in this Manner, as Freemount the Foreman told the Story. Friday the 31st of August, Robins came to Rottenbury a Journeyman to Mr. Delamar, with a Letter forged in the Name of one Hampton, a Shop-keeper in Bristol, who knew the said Rottenbury, desiring him to recommend the Bearer to a Person who could use him well for Silks of a particular Sort. Rottenbury carried Robins to Mr. Dolamar's Warehouse-man; but the Warehouse being shut up, Robins was told to call on Monday, and he might see the Goods: Accordingly on Monday Afternoon Robins came, and looked out the Goods, and taking Occasion again to get the forged Letter, he put it into his Pocket. The Goods were, according to Robin's Direction, to go to the Three Cups in Bread-street, for a Gentlewoman to see, who, if she liked them, was to pay down ready Money to Robins, and he to pay Freemount. Robins and Freemount went to the Three Cups ; but the pretended Gentlewoman not being come, they went into the House, where Robins called for Wine, read the News, and all on a Sudden took away the Goods, saying he would snew them to the Lady, and made off through the Inn-Gate with them. Freemount pursued him without his Hat for Haste, thinking Robins could not be above ten Yards before him; however the latter made such Haste, that the former could not overtake him, but lost Sight of him intirely.

Such are the Arts that wicked Man made use of to cheat the Unwary; and for a long Time, he, together with one Br - ng, has carried on these vile and atrocious Practices: And, though he would not own any, yet various are the Villanies of this Kind committed by these and others of their wicked and tricking Crew. Robins always took Care to have somewhat of a Note of the Value of the Goods he thus surrepticiously and fraudulently got into his Custody. And, as he stood at the Bar upon his Trial, had a large Parcel of them in his Hat, thinking, by producing these, to evade the Law, and take off the Appearance of Theft and Robbery from every Accusation that might be brought against him. But Justice was too mighty for his little tricking Cunning. Every one that knows any thing of Trade, must see through this Cheat, and judge, that this is not the regular Method of parting with Goods intirely, and alienating the Property; and Robins's Notion of these Things was deceiving himself, and his villainous Accomplices. He seemed to the last the most insensible Wretch that ever was in this Condition; nor could the Terrors of the Lord, or the Persuasionof his Friends avail any thing towards making him Sensible of his detestable ill-spent Life. As witness, that kind, tender, and awakening Letter sent him by a Friend, who saw him once or twice after, and all to no Manner of Purpose.

The Letter is as follows, viz.

Shoreditch, Oct. 27. 1750.

Mr. Robins,

SINCE I was with you, I have seen Mr. Delemare, Mr. Truby, and Mr. Horton the Baker, Truby's Landlord, who have convinced me that what you told me of their making out Bills of Parcels of the Goods you had, is an abominable Falsity, I must be so plain as to tell you, such Disingenuity, and prevaricating, is highly unbecoming a dying Man; pray George, lay your Hand upon your Breast, and can you dare to say, Mr. Delemar's Foreman ever deliver'd you a Bill of Parcels of the Goods, or even that there was any Writing at all, except a little Scrip of Paper, with the Number of Yards and Price, cast up for the Man's use that he might not mistake in taking the Money, had you been so just as to pay for them. And you know you would have been cast on Mr. Delemar's Indictment, had not his Man blundered in his Evidence. Truby denies he ever offered to take three Guineas, or any Money in lieu of his Loss. The Landlord says, that when he saw you in Newgate , he desired you to discover if the Handkerchiefs were pawned, and said it was better to pay three Pounds for them, than lose the Whole; and that if he had been at your Tryal, he should have done you no Harm; and as for Truby, you have ruin'd him, and his Wife. And the poor Man from making a few Goods for himself, now works as a Journeyman. Can you appeal to God, who searches the Heart, that when you applied to Delemar, with Browning's forg'd recommendatory Letter, you had no Intention to defraud him of the Goods, but to pay honestly for them? Why did you run away out of the Tap-House, with the Goods, and leave the poor Servant in the Lurch? Was it any Proof of your honest Intent to pay, that you sold (as I am credibly inform'd) part of the Silks, which were prized by Mr. Delemar at 12 s. 6 d. per Yard, for no more than six Shillings? Why did you, to impose on Truby, tell him the Goods must go to the King's-Arms for your Wife to see, and said the Horse stood there, (which was a Lie) and pretend such a Hurry that you could not stay while Truby shifted himself, who therefore sent his Wife with the Goods? Did you not call for a Quartern of Rum at the King's-Arms, and before it came, snatch the Goods off the Dresser from Mr. Truby, who had her Elbow leaning on them, and made off. Now weigh all these Circumstances, and do you, or any Man, of common Sense judge, if in both these Cases, there was not a plain Intent to rob, and defraud. You see I have made as exact an Enquiry as I cou'd, since as your solemn Declarations of Innocence, as a dying Man, somewhatstaggered me, tho' I could not even then believe them true, and should have opened my Mind more to you, had I been with you alone. Perhaps you may feed yourself with Hopes of a Reprieve, but if you had seen a Paragraph in yesterday's Gazetteer, particularly levell'd at you by Name, it would damp all such Hopes. I desire you will not interpret what I wrote, as if I intended to reflect on you under your Misfortunes; no, I pity your Person, tho' I derest the Facts you have committed, and I must take the Freedom to say, that palliating and excusing Facts, which can't be defended, is a small Sign of true Penitence; you may deceive Men, and hide your Crimes; but you cannot deceive your Maker. I pray God to change your Heart, and inspire you with true Repentance; and that you may be prepared for what ever his good Providence shall allot for you; that if your Life be spared, you may, by your future Conduct, shew, that you were deserving the Mercy you received; and if you should be ordered for Execution, that Death itself may be an Advantage to you, is the hearty Desire of

Yours, R. C.

P. S. I think it highly necessary you make all the Satisfaction you can to the Persons you may have injured, by doing the Best you can to help them to their Goods; and if poor Truby's Goods are pawn'd any where, let him know where, that he may recover them.

Directed for Mr. George Robins in the Cells of Newgate .

The Paragraph alluded to in the above Letter was as follows.

We hear for certain, that there are a Set of Gentlemen Sharpers, who now infest this City and Suburbs, genteely dressed, who call themselves Country Tradesmen, and under that Pretence, sometimes assisted with a sham Recommendation, procure unwary Merchants or Tradesmen to send their Journeymen with such Goods as they pretended to want, to some Inn of Repute, in order to be there paid for them in ready Money. As soon as the Goods are arrived at the Inn, the Gentleman Sharper feigns some specious Pretence for taking the Goods up Stairs, with a Promise, however, of bringing down the Money for them, directing the Journeyman in the mean Time to write a Receipt; and by such like Shifts, these new-fashioned Dealers get (what they call) the legal Possession of the Goods, and then they as legally march off with them, leaving the Proprietor to his Right of Action only, in Case he can find his Chapman. - 'Tis most certain, that George Robins , alias Jones , who is under Sentence of Death in Newgate , belonged to this dangerous Gang, and that he has by this Means taken in several Merchants and Wholesale Dealers, to the Amount of many Hundred Pounds. - He intended to have imposed the same Trick upon Mrs. Truby, whose Goods he is convicted of stealing, but she, guarding against his Designs, he then desperately took them away by Force. - This Paragraph was inserted for publick Utility, that others may avoid the dangerous Snares of the rest of these Villains, whom Justice has not yet overtaken.

Robins persisted, to the last Evening, in his obstinate way of saying, that if he had paid for the Goods, as he should have done, and had others been true to him, who gave Orders to him, to look out for Goods, and engaged to pay for them, he knew no Wrong, or Injustice in his Way of Dealing; But, on the Morning of Execution, I made use of such Arguments, particularly with respect to the Robbery for which he suffered, that at last he did comply so far as to say, his Punishment was no more than he deserved for it, and many other Offences of the like Kind.

2. The unhappy Culprit, John Prior , aged not quite 23 Years, was born of reputable Parents, in the Parish of St. James's Clerkenwell . His Father was by Trade a Founder, and lived in tolerable good Circumstances, and (as is the Fault of too many Parents) was over fond of his Boy, humour'd him almost in every Thing that he thought would please him, and scarcely refused any Thing he hanker'd after, without considering the bad Consequences of so indulgent a Compliance. When this Youth was arriv'd to the Age of 14, he was plac'd out Apprentice to one Mr. Kirby a Callicoe Printer at West Ham in Essex , whom he liv'd with, and serv'd faithfully during the Space of six Months, after which Time, Mr. Kirby dying, (having first prov'd Insolvent) the Destitute and Friendless Youth was sent to the Work-House at West-Ham , where he continued but for a little while, when one Mr. Reed, a Gardiner at Oldford , near Bow , in the County of Middlesex , wanting a Servant, and, upon Enquiry, hearing of this Prior, and finding him to be a sturdy Lad, and fit for his Purpose, receiv'd him upon Liking, and afterwards, as we may suppose, approving of his Behaviour, by joint Consent he was bound Apprentice to serve him for seven Years, and learn the Business of a Gardiner , which happen'd at Easter, in the Year 1743. Here he continued, behav'd well, and serv'd his Master duly and faithfully for two Years and a half, 'till at last, and I believe for want of due Correction, or it may be from too much Indulgence, he grew weary of Labour, sick of his Servitude, and from bad Advisers, and a forward Disposition, which grew up with him from his Infancy, thought himself now able to commence his own Master, and in order to do so ran away: Here it is natural to suppose, that the Company he resorted to must be such as himself, or worse; and, in all Probability, old Delinquents, who had laid their Traps to catch this headstrong and unguarded Lad. Under this Situation he continued for full five Weeks, before he could possibly extricate himself from these syren Haunts; at last, recovering of himself, he thought it expedient (like the Prodigal) to return, threw himself under the Shelter of his Uncle, (one Mr. R. - n, in Crooked-Lane ,) upon whose Entreaties he was receive'd into the Service of his said Master Mr. Reed, upon his Promise of Amendment, and to serve out, with all Diligence, the Remainder of his Time. But such is the Nature of Idleness, the catching Influence of Example, and the Perswasion of this new contracted Acquaintance during his first Absence, that after the Space

only of six Months, or there abouts, he broke away a second Time from his said Master's Service, on or near the 16th of April 1746, and enter'd on Board the Windsor Man of War , and in the Capaity as a Fore-mast Man , remain'd for two Years, receiv'd his full Pay, out of which he purchas'd himself Clothes, &c. to make a decent appearance, hoping thereby, as he could both write and read well, and had a good Share of Understanding, he might get into some tolerable Employment, but these Hopes (as he says) not succeeding during the Patience of his Expectations, he was determin'd to enjoy the Pleasures of the Town, by which Expression, I am clear, that he meant the Vices of it; and, indeed, so it prov'd, for he soon fell into the Accomplishment of his Inclinations, and that in the Company of the most debauch'd and prostitute. His good Principles, (if any remain'd) were by this Means extinguish'd, and all his Money gone. The next Thought was, how he should supply the Deficiency; Work he was a Stranger to, and it no way suited with his Inclination, and therefore he betook himself to Street Robbing, and Thieving, a Business that could be carried on at Night, and in which, if he prov'd successful, he would not undertake again 'till the Profit of the Spoil was quite exhausted; and as Night affords the most convenient Shade for Works of Darkness, he pursued in this Course, and committed several Street Robberies upon his own Bottom; while at last frequenting the usual Places of Rendezvous for Persons of this Character, he contracted an Acquaintance with one Odel, and Burridge, and so set out to rob in Company, but with this Proviso, that they might make themselves Masters of any Gentleman's Property, bully and swear at him they might, but should promise, not to abuse or hurt his Person -

Besides committing many Robberies by himself, the Particulars of which he did not chuse to be very communicative of, he gives the following Account of some he committed in Company with others.

The first, he says, was on Thursday, September 7th last, when he, and several others set out together, in order to seek their Prey; that they met a Gentleman in Middle Row , Holborn , whom they attack'd, commanding him to deliver his Money, with bitter Oaths and Imprecations; that they took from him some Money, both Gold and Silver, but to what amount Prior cannot recollect, but whatever it was, he says they equally divided it.

The next Night they went out again, and travelled together along Time, but to no Purpose, for they made no Booty that Night.

On Saturday Night they went out again upon their Business, as they term'd it, stop'd and robb'd a Gentleman at the farther End of Hatton-Garden , near the Brew-House , on Saffron-Hill ; that Night they committed the Robbery on Mr. Booker, from whom they took 3 s. 6 d. a Penknife, and a Whig, for which Robbery Prior, and two others, were convicted on the Oath of the Prosecutors and Emanuel Clark , one of their Companions; and the same Night, roving

about, they strolled into Fleet-street , where they robb'd another Gentleman.

On Sunday Night they again went on their accustom'd Hunt, stopp'd, and robb'd a Gentleman in Hatton-Garden of a Snuff-Box, a Case of Instruments, and Sixpenny-worth of Half-pence, which Prior would have return'd, but the Gentleman refus'd and said they might keep them, since they had not injur'd him personally.

When I put the Question Home to Prior, and ask'd him how he came not to make himself an Evidence, his Answer was, that he had more Generosity than to do it, and that he should have look'd upon himself as the worst of Villains, to have harbour'd even so base a Thought, (as he called it) as that of betraying his Accomplices, and moreover added, that he heartily forgave Emanuel Clark , who was the Evidence against him and his Companions. He was fully resign'd to his Fate, and endeavour'd, to the utmost of his Abilities, to make his Peace with God, and Man, and died in Charity with all the World.

The following Letter Prior sent to Emanuel Clark 's Master the Monday before his Execution.

SIR,

IT grieves me to think that your Apprentice Emanuel Clark , the Evidence against me, has laid to my Charge, viz. That I advis'd him to rob your House, which is notoriously False, for it was his own base Proposal, not mine; I assure you farther, that the Pistol which was convey'd out of your House, was brought to me by Clark and Odel, and entirely their own Act, without ever consulting me about it, and that I knew not from whence it came, 'till they inform'd me.

This I declare solemnly to be a Truth, as I am a dying Man, who hope to be believ'd, and forgiven, at the Hands of God, thro' the Merits of my Saviour, so wishing Prosperity to you and yours, heartily forgiving Clark, and praying that God would forgive him too.

I endeavour to rest, Yours,

John Prior .

From my Cell, in Newgate , Nov. 5. 1750.

3. GEORGE ANDERSON , whose real Name was Jeffery Everett , was born in Hertfordshire , and was about 35 or 36 Years of Age; and if he had lived as many longer, 'tis generally believed he would still have continued the same Man, and that nothing could have put an End to his Villanies that did not prove a Period to his Power of Action. He was bound Apprentice to a Baker , and served his Time; but whether with Honour and Faithfulness to his Master is a Doubt. He was very remarkable, however, among all that had any Knowledge of him in those his early Days, and generally went by the Name of Jeff the Baker. He was an unlucky Youth, and one of the foremost in all boyish mischievous Tricks; and therefore the more

generally noted among those of his own Time.

He was no sooner out of his Time, than he began to get acquainted with Gamblers, and other idle and wicked Persons, some of which are well known at this Time, and are in a fair Way to follow him the Road he last went. He now became tired of Toyling in a Bakehouse, and thought being abroad with his new Companions much better than being confined in Doors all Day, sweating to get an honest Livelihood. Gaming, and other of those profligate Vices of theirs, seemed agreeable to him, and he resolved to put in his Lot amongst them, and to be Partaker of their Wickedness; and, being an active and a daring Fellow, was very fit for their Purpose, and met with great Encouragement amongst them. No Man was more ready at any Enterprize, and he generally had the good Luck to get off undiscovered, or at least so as to escape the Hands of Justice. The Fate he at last met with, has been deserved this many Years past, which he could not deny: And, though he was sensible he so richly merited it, he used various Means to endeavour an Escape from it. Besides, what will be hereafter set forth, he had the most uncommon and unheard of Assurance to write a Letter to a Person in a very high Rank, supplicating him to save his Life, without any Manner of Recommendation or Knowledge of him; only, perhaps, he might have heard, with the Rest of the World, that he was a tender, humane and compassionate Man to the Distresses and Afflictions of his fellow Creatures.

Everett went on in a loose, dissolute and abandoned Way of Life for a long Time e'er the Law had Opportunity to lay hold of him, tho' daily were the Pranks he played that were liable to the Censure of it. At length he and one Wright, having reduced an unwary poor Girl to swear a Street Robbery against two People (on the Indictment for which however they were acquitted) they missed their Aim, and the Trap they had privily laid for others, they sell into themselves: For the Girl in a short Time after, finding them remiss in what they had promised her, disclosed the whole Scene of Iniquity. And Everett and Wright, being indicted for the same, were ordered to be set upon the Pillory at the End of Chancery-Lane ; which was done for them accordingly.

This was no Warning to Everett, but he pursued his old Courses, and was seen publickly every Day, after he got free from this Affair, in Company with Money-droppers, Thieves and Gamblers: And the next Scrape he got into, that we can come at the Knowledge of, was from a Copy of his Convicttion at Hicks's Hall , which is as follows, viz.

Middlesex, At the Session of Oyer and Terminer of Our Sovereign Lord the King, holden for the said County of Middlesex, at Hickes's Hall in St. John's Street , in the County aforesaid, by Adjournment, on Wednesday the 20th Day of April, in the 21st Year of the Reign of our Sovereign Lord George the Second, King of Great Britain, &c. Newgate, 1748.

Jeffery Everett , convicted by Jury upon Trial of an Indictment against him for defrauding Thomas Street of one Pound of Almonds, and 33 s. and 6 d. in Money, is fined for the said Offence One Shilling, and he is ordered to be put in, and upon the Pillory, near the upper End of the Hay-Market for the Space of one Hour, on such Day as the Sheriff of this Country shall forth with appoint; and he is committed to his Majesty's Goal of Newgate , there to be imprisoned until he pay the said Fine, and undergo the said Punishment; which Punishment he underwent, and Fine paid according to Direction of the Court. But

The said Jeffery Everett was also convicted upon Trial of another Indictment against him, for falsely and fraudulently, craftily and deceitfully, exposing, uttering and paying to Katharine , the Wife of William Rhodes , one Piece of false and counterfeit Money, of Tin, Pewter, Lead and Brass, and other mixed and base Metals, made, and counterfeited to the Likeness and Similitude of a certain Piece of good and legal foreign Coin, called a Portugal Piece, of the Value of 36 s. the said Jeffery well knowing the said Piece to be false and counterfeit, is fined for the said Offence One Shilling, and he is committed to his Majesty's Goal of Newgate , there to be imprisoned for the Space of two Years, now next ensuing, and until he pay the said Fine: And he is to find sufficient Sureties, by Recognizance, for his good Behaviour for the Space of two Years more, to commence from the Expiration of his said Imprisonment, and to be imprisoned in Newgate until he find such Sureties as aforesaid. Accordingly he was so imprisoned, and paid his Fine, and finding such Securities as required, was once more set at Liberty, April 20, 1750.

And here we cannot but remember, during his Imprisonment, his Behaviour was in the same vile, profligate, and wicked Manner, and even there he could not leave off his Thievish Tricks; for the most Part of his Time there scarce went a Person, upon any Account whatever, whether to relieve, or comfort in Distress any of the People confined in those Appartments where he made himself Master and presided, but went out a Loser, which has not been the Case since he left the Place; and it was reported for a Truth, when he left the Goal, that he had not got less than 500 60 l. by his Trade during the Confinement.

A Gentleman, with whom I was in Company the Day of Execution, told me, He went with some others to relieve an unhappy Criminal one Day, while Everett was there; before they went out, one of them missed his Handkerchief, and returning to Everett, told him of it; upon which he pretended to be surprised, and said it was impossible to recover it again: But, asking one that stood by, and another or two about it, he at length fixed upon one whom he called Turpin, who, with a great Oath, denied it; at the same Time going out into another Appartment, Everett followed, and presently brought back the Handkerchief, for which he received some Reward.

Everett was no sooner discharged from is two Years Confinement; but, staying a few Nights with his Wife, who dwelt in Swan-Yard , next to Newgate ; he once more betook himself to his old Courses. He had no other Way of getting a Livelihood, and therefore we can conclude no other from his then past and future Conduct. The first Thing we know of was, in the notorious Way of picking up poor Country-fellows, in order to practise Cheats and Frauds upon them. Everett one Day, soon after his Enlargement, brought one of these into a Tavern in the Neighbourhood of Newgate Street , and, with unparalelled Impudence, led him through the Kitchen, in which were several Persons who knew him, and his Ways of Working. Upon which, one of the Company, enraged at the Affair, asked him, How he could have the impudence to attempt such a Thing in that Neighbourhood where he was so well known. Upon which he thought proper immediately to withdraw with his Company out of the House, and what was the Event we know not.

Sometime in June last, Everett being upon the Lay in Fleet-street , met with a young Gentleman whom he stopt. Being asked whether he intended to rob him, without more ado he knocked him down. The Gentleman having a faithful Dog with him, which attacked Everett; he was not so busy about him as otherwise he would have been, so the Gentleman had Time to recover, and get upon his Legs: By which Time the Watch and others were come to his Assistance, and Everett was secured, and delivered over to the Constables and Watch, notwithstanding all his Hectoring and Threats. It seems he was pretty well known at the Watch-house at Fleet-Bridge ; and the Gentleman being told that he was a desperate, dangerous Fellow, and could procure Evidence to swear any thing; after some Time used in Persuasions, he consented, and Everett was let go.

Next follows the blackest Piece of Villainy that could almost be contrived by any the most Abandoned and Crafty, resolved upon every thing, that was notorious. The Gentleman was now tired of the Town, and, as it was the Height of Summer, he must needs take himself into the Country. He had not yet divested himself of all the Spoil of Newgate, (where he got more than ever Man did before, or, it is to be hoped, ever will do again) but with what remained, he took his Departure, and away for Staines and Windsor .'Tis probable he was not altogether unactive, as he went; but at length he came to his native County, after some time travelling round the Country; and at a Place called the Rye , near Hodsdon in Hertfordshire , he and a Woman he took along with him, went to a poor Widow's, who kept a publick House there, where he had met with the civilest Treatment, and served her the basest Trick. Vile Ingratitude! having some slender Knowledge of him, he was admitted with this Doxy into a Room behind the Bar. They had not been long there, only the drinking of a Glass of Wine, perhaps, when Everett made a Motion for this Woman to take a Walk into the Garden, and desired Mrs. Graves, the Mistress of the House, to bear her Company. The poor Woman not suspecting any Harm, as they passed for Man and Wife, went with her; inwhich Interval of Time, Everett found Means to pick the Lock of a Scrutore, or Bureau, and took out 60 l. and some Gold Rings, which Sum it seems the poor Woman had laid up against the Time the Brewer called upon her. When he had got this Booty, he found Means to fasten the Lock again, and filled it with little Pieces of Sticks, to prevent her Key doing its Office, in case she should have Occasion to go to the same Place before his Departure, or sooner than he wished she should; soon after he took his Leave, and away went he and this Mistress.

The poor Woman had not Occasion to look at her Money, till about a Fortnight after, when she found the Lock filled with little Sticks, and was obliged to have it forced open. And then, to her great Surprize, she discovered that all was lost. Everett was gone, and having taken the Rout of Baldock and Royston , and so on, went to take the Diversion of Nottingham Races, and so came back to Newmarket ; where, by his returning so soon to London , he had no great Luck, either upon the Filch, or at Gaming. The poor Woman was inconsolable, if not driven to Distraction; his Villainy brought upon her a Suspicion she did not merit; and he owned this Fact to two Gentlemen, who are ready to give Testimony thereof, if Occasion should be to put them to that Trouble.

This might have brought him to Justice; but he was always skulking up and down, as Thieves are used to do, and it was a very hard Matter to find him two Days in the same Place: But at length he was overtaken, and the Robbery for which he suffered, and its cruel and barbarous Consequences, which ensued from his Knife of eighteen Inches long, shew how desperate a Fellow he was, and how necessary it was, that he should be taken away from among Men.

Since his Conviction, he behaved in a seeming composed and devout Manner, till the Warrant for Execution came down on Thursday last, when he began to be disturbed in Mind, and could not help shewing it. On Friday Night an Information was made to Mr. Akerman, of some Matters, which seemed to shew, he had a Design, by the most outrageous, and murderous Means, to attempt an Escape. On Saturday Morning, Search was made in the Cells, and about his Person, but nothing being found, he behaved in a very insolent Manner, and swore were the Person there, who had made the Information, had he a Pistol in his Hand, he would shoot him directly, and he made use of a very extraordinary Speech, to what Purpose he intended it might serve I never could understand, nor any that heard it; and it was this, pointing with his Righthand to one Part of the Press-yard, and with his Left to the opposite, he said,

"Were Death, where he pointed with

"his Right-hand, and were my Pardon,

"where he pointed with his

"Left, and I was told to go to my

"Pardon upon Condition of being a

"Villain, I would fly into the Arms of

"Death." Though it is generally believed, that had he been permitted Opportunity, he would have proved himself a notorious Liar.

On the same Evening it was found necessary to put his Wife to the Compter, which being done, and Everett hearing of it, on Sunday Morning when Mr. Akerman went into the Press-yard, he behaved very insolent, blasphemously,and outragiously; for which, to prevent him from Mischief, which he was still big with, it was thought proper to chain him down to the Floor in his Cell, and it was accordingly done.

On Sunday Morning his Mistress, the same Woman that went with him Abroad, when he robbed the poor Widow at the Rye near Hodsdon , was sent to the other Compter. A Letter having first come to Mr. Akerman's Hands from Everett's Wife, begging of her Husband to intercede with Mr. Akerman, that she might be set at Liberty, since he, (Everett) knew, that she was innocent of what was done; whereby she seemed to own, that something had been done.

Sunday, and Monday Morning Evevett behaved very outrageously, and blasphemously, nor could any Advice take hold of him. Tuesday Morning, when he had proved all his Attempts were vain, his Passion subsided, and he said he found it was over with him, and he wou'd endeavour to be easy, and so continued till Evening, when his Wife was admitted to take her leave of him; and at the Interview, both behaved well enough, all Things considered. On Wednesday Morning he seemed pretty well composed, and in all Appearance, to took leave of the World.

THOMAS REINOLDS aged 36, was born in the County of Lowth in Ireland , of mean but very honest Parents, who took as much Care as their Circumstances would admit of to instruct him in Literature; and to make him acquainted with the French and Latin Languages, and finding his Inclinations strong to go over to France, to be educated in one of the French Colleges, (as some of the Youth of Ireland very often do) his Friend made a Collection for him to defray his Expences to Paris , and he accordingly went, but not having a sufficient Recommendation when he came there, nor Money to stand his Friend; he was prevailed upon by some of his Countrymen to enlist himself in a Regiment, where he remained a considerable Time, but his Expectations not answering that Way, he endeavour'd to get his Discharge, and for that Purpose applied to a Person, (who afterwards fell at the Battle of Culloden) he advised him to be content, and promis'd his Friendship to do something for him, as soon as he found a proper Opportunity; but for the present, told him he must be satisfied with being a Servant, and took him into his Service in the Quality of a Groom . About this Time the French were preparing to take the Field, and Reinolds thinking the Life of a Hussar much more decent and profitable than the Employment he was in, he immediately got himself to be enrolled in a new raised Regiment designed for Flanders ; and in order to add a proper Fierceness to his Countenance, he got a pair of artificial Whiskers made, which he wore during that whole Campaign; and behaved himself with equal Courage, it being observable in the Course of the late War, that the Hussars of both Armies did their Duty with a good deal of Spirit.

He continued in this Station, till the Attempt upon Scotland was pregnant,when the Person above intimated being ordered to repair to Scotland, to act in an eminent Capacity, and take upon him the Command of the Forces landed in Scotland , he took Reinolds along with him, who was mightily pleased at the Change; and as soon as they landed he extended his Acquaintance, and made himself as popular as he could; he immediately retracted from the savage Moroseness of an Hussar, quitted his Whiskers, and commenced the obliging Deportment of a civilized Frenchman; and in a little Time engaged the Warmth and Affection of every-body he had the least Concern with, and was much respected by all the Officers in the Cause he was concerned in; no Man in short could be more indulged then he, as appears by his being recommended as a proper Domestic to a great Man. Reinolds gained some Money likewise at this Time, by communicating his Knowledge in the Art of War to those who were absolute Strangers to that Science. He attended in the Siege of Fort William , in the Quality of Baggage and Store Master . Immediately after the Siege was raised, he returned to Inverness , and was close by his Patron when he breath'd his last. He suffered the same Fate with the rest of the French Troops, and was once more reduced to the greatest Extremities; he was with many other other confined at Carlisle , where he remained until he was exchanged by Cartel, and sent to France .

While he was at Carlisle , he paid his Addresses to, and married a Widow of Cumberland, whom he acquainted with the Situation of some Part of his Affairs; and telling her he had some Dependance in France, which might be for the good of them both, she suffered herself to remain behind, and he went over. When he came to France , they used all possible Means to persuade him to engage as a Soldier, but he absolutely rejected it, and remained some Time without Employ, and at last obtained a Sanctuary in the Family of the Marquiss de Mirepoix, with whom he came over, when he came Ambassador to England . Reinolds's Post, 'tis said, was to take Care of the Marquis's Horses , and to attend him when he rode out. And 'tis also said, that in this Service Reinolds picked up a good deal of Money, and sent for his Wife to London , with whom he lived very happily. When his Majesty went to Hanover, and the Marquis was preparing to follow him, Reinolds, at the Request of his Wife, who was then big with Child, desired to be excused going, which was complied with; and after a little Consultation together, they agreed, and took a Publick House in St. Giles's , on which he expended a good deal of Money, in Furniture &c. and laid in a considerable Stock of all Sorts of Liquors, and had an exceeding good Trade, and lived in great Credit, till this Affair happened, which he declares himself absolutely innocent of. He behaved exceeding penitent, said he forgave all the World, as he hoped for Forgiveness from the Hands of God, appeared extreamly resigned, declared in the Press-yard, while his Irons were knocking off, that he went to be hanged with as much Satisfaction as if he was going to be married;

for that he was innocent of the Crime for which he suffer'd, and freely forgave his Prosecutor; and at the Gallows with his last Breath, again declared his Innocence.

5. WILLIAM RYLEY , aged 19, was born near Liverpool , and bound Apprentice to a Watch-maker in that Town, who, when he had served about two Years of his Time, finding Business not so good as he wished, removed to Dublin in Ireland in Hopes of better, and lived upon the Tolsel . Ryley went along with him, and served him in all about four Years and a half. Then his Master failed, and he was left to the wide World, without Friend or Money. Upon which he returned again to Liverpool , and went on board a Privateer to the West Indies ; and upon his Return he was pressed aboard a Man of War in the Downs, and continuing about a Year in the Service, was paid off at Plymouth with the Ship, and came to London. He had not been long in Town before he met a Countryman of his, who was a Soldier , and, being destitute, he soon listed in the second Regiment of Guards. He was looked upon as a quiet, harmless Fellow, and well respected among his Comarades: But, unluckily for him, when the Man walked in Tothill-Fields , 300 Miles in 6 Days, on the Tuesday, this Youth being a good Walker himself, and acquainted with the Man that was to perform the Task, was hired by him to walk before him to clear the Way, and encourage him for the rest of the Journey. Accordingly he walked with him, was always before him, and could have beat him; so that he became as it were a Party concern'd. Flush'd with the Prospect of Victory the last Day Ryley led the Way, and had pushed several People out of the Path before; but unluckily and unthinkingly he says, he happened to strike the Deceased, Sutton, on the Side of the Head, with his Sword, who laid his Foot in the Way: At which Sutton being enraged, flew at him like a Lion, catched him by the Collar, and struck him several Times in the Face, and Riley was tumbled down on the Ground with a Number of People about him. Thinking to get rid of Sutton and the Mob, he says, he thrust at him; and, as it happened, pricked him in the Belly with his Sword, as he stood over him, not with a Design to kill, but to relieve himself from the Press. After which he went to a Publick-House, and drank with some of his Acquaintance, who would have had him to make off; but he replied, he knew not any thing he had done to be afraid of. However, some Time after, came some People, and took him, and being carried before Justice Manly, was committed to the Gate-house. He was sensible of the Guilt of taking away a Man's Life, and repented with bitter weeping for the same; but could not help at the same Time regretting the Loss of his own Life in the Prime of his Age.

He laboured under great Anxiety upon Account of somewhat he said he would discover to me before he died; and the Day before Execution he told me as follows, viz. That a Comrade of his having a Wife, whom he treated very ill, upon Account of Jealousy heentertained upon Ryley's Account, tho' he said without any just Foundation. However Ryley, as he declared, in Pity to that Woman, entered into an Agreement with his Comrade, that if he would give up all Pretensions to her, as he saw they would never live peaceably together, he would marry her himself. Accordingly 'twas agreed upon, and the Comrade, the Woman, and Ryley, went to the Fleet, the Comrade first threw his Certificate of Marriage in the Fire, and then Ryley and the Woman were married at the same Place, and had a fresh Certificate. Whatever Offence was chargeable upon his Mind upon this and all Accounts, he was very sorry for, and was almost incessantly invoking the Lord Jesus Christ to have Mercy upon him, and receive his Soul.

At the PLACE of EXECUTION.

ON Wednesday Morning the 7th Instant, John Pryor , George Robins , and William Ryley in one Cart, and George Anderson , and Thomas Reynolds in another, went to the Place of Execution; who after being tyed up, continued for some Time in Prayer for Forgiveness of Sin; and having recommend-themselves to Almighty Protection, I took my Leave. Prior begg'd all that he had injured to forgive him, as he died in Charity with all Men. Ryley seeing some Soldiers stand at a little Distance, called to them, and said,

"If

"my Death be looked upon as a Disgrace

"to the Cloaths I have worn, I

"am sorry for it; yet let it be also an

"Example to you not to use your Arms

"rashly, and to a bad Purpose, as you

"see I have done. And when you have

"got too much in your Heads, do not

"go after Women, and other wicked

"Ways, but go to your Quarters. I

"pray God bless you all, and receive

"my Soul."

Reynolds declared his Innocence of the Offence laid to his Charge to the last.

Robins was almost depriv'd of Sense thro' Illness, and said nothing, nor took Notice of any Body.

Anderson having been used to a laced Waistcoat, had the Vanity to appear in somewhat like it to the last; and, for that Purpose had a white Linen Waistcoat and Breeches, double laced, as it were, with black Ribband or Ferret, I can't exactly say which of the two. He seem'd composed to the last, and said nothing, but to a young Fellow, whom he called up into the Cart, just before it drew away, to whom he whispered what he had to say.

Three Hearses attended for the Bodies of Prior, Robins, and Anderson; Ryley's was taken away by some Soldiers; Reinold's by some of his Friends. Anderson's Body was brought into Swan-Yard ,near Newgate . The rest were disposed of at their Friends Will: And every Thing was managed without any Confusion or Disturbance.

This is all the Account given by me, JOHN TAYLOR , Ordinary of Newgate .

(This Day is Publish'd, the Second Edition, Price 1 s.)

A COMPLEAT HISTORY OF JAMES MACLEAN , The GENTLEMAN HIGHWAYMAN,

Who was Executed at TYBURN , on Wednesday, October 3, 1750, for a Robbery on the Highway. Containing the Particulars of his LIFE, from his BIRTH to his DEATH. In which is included, an Account of the Robberies committed by his Companion PLUNKET. And a Series of LETTERS, that pass'd between him and PLUNKET; as well during the Time he was in Holland , as in England ; in which are open'd some extraordinary Scenes. Also, the Particulars of their Fortune-hunting Schemes; in which MACLEAN generally pass'd for a Gentleman of Worth, and PLUNKET personated his Footman. Likewise a Number of Original LETTERS sent to MACLEAN by different LADIES, some of which contain Narratives of Facts so exceeding tender, as must raise Pity and Compassion in the Breast of every Reader. The Whole adorn'd with a very neat Picture of MACLEAN, taken from the Life, while under Sentence. Drawn and Engrav'd by Mr. BOITARD.

Printed for C. CORBETT, at Addison's-Head, against St. Dunstan's-Church, Fleet-street.

