THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTOR, Who was EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 5th of this Instant July, 1736; BEING THE Third EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon . Sir JOHN WILLIAMS , Knt. Number III. For the said YEAR.

LONDON: Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court, near the Leg-Tavern, Fleet-Street . M.DCC.XXXVI.[Price Four-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King’s Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Honourable Sir John Williams , Knt. Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn; the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson, Recorder of the City of London; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy Recorder of the said City; and others of his Majesty’s justices of Oyer and Terminer for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey, on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 10th, 11 th, and 12th of June, 1736, in the Tenth Year of his Majesty’s Reign.

One Man, viz. George Watson , was by the Jury convicted of a capital Crime, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, he was instructed from these Words, Then said Jesus unto his Disciples, If any Man will come after me, let him deny himself and follow me, St. Matt. xvi. 24. From this I desired him to take Notice of the Person speaking, who was no less than Jesus Christ, our great Lord and Law-giver, the eternal Word and Wisdom of the Father, Who being the Brightness of his Glory, and the express Image of his Person, and upholding all Things by the Word of his Power, when he had by himself purged our Sins, sat down on the Right Hand of the Majesty on High, &c. Heb. i. 3. Next the Persons to whom Christ spoke were his

Disciples, these who were instructed by him in that Holy Religion, which they were to communicate to the World, and to which all Men, prosessing the Name of Jesus, ought to give diligent Heed, as they must answer to God for the Talents he has given them to improve.

Then I took Occasion to shew, that the Terms of the Gospel are, to take up our Cross, which hath an Allusion to the Cross of Christ, upon which he suffered for our Sins; so that till we intend to be the Disciples of the Holy Jesus, we must in Imitation of him, Who was wounded for our Transgressions, and who was bruised for our Iniquities, willingly and chearfully submit to whatever Punishments, whatever Calamities or Afflictions, God in his divine Dispensations, is pleased to inflict upon us, as intended for our special Good and Advantage, to reclaim us from Sin, and make us like unto Christ, in denying ourselves to this World, to the Grandeur, Pomp, Magnificence, Riches, Pleasure, and Vanity thereof, to be like unto this our great, yea our infinitely great and good Example, holy, humble, servent and devour, as God is holy; and blameless in all Manner of Life and Conversation, approving ourselves with Consciences void of Offence towards God and towards Man; and thus having renounced this World, and every Thing therein, which is ready to divert our Minds from the Simplicity which is in Christ, the sincere Christian is willing to part with every Thing that is near and dear unto him, and to follow Christ whithersoever he goeth, and whithersoever he pleases to call him; Then Christ is to him a God of Wisdom, Righteousness, Sanctification, and Redemption, 1. Cor, i 31. then his Thoughts are settled upon Heaven and Happiness, and the Glory of the Life which is to come; then he esteems all Things as Loss in Comparison of Christ and him crucified, reckoning them as Dung, so as he may win Christ and be found in him, not having his own Righteousness which is of the Law, but that which is thro’ the Faith of Christ, the Righteousness which is of God by Faith: Then it is, that heavenly Meditations, and divine Ejaculations, spiritual Raptures, and holy Resolutions, become the chief Business and main Employment of his Life; then the Life he leads in the lesh, is by the Faith of the Son of God, who hath loved us and given himself unto Death for our Sins; then he decicates himself wholly, Soul and Body, unto God, even as an holy, living, and acceptable Sacrifice, which is our most reasonable Service.

Having by these, and many such Consideration, endeavour’d to bring him to a Sight and Sense of his Sin, and to dispose him for a true Repentance for the Errors of a mispent Life.

I represented to him the grievous aggravating Guilt of that most odicus Sin of Murder (that of which he stood convicted) as may be seen in the first Act of this Kind that ever was committed; Abel’s Blood crieth from the Earth, as God tells Cain, Gen. iv. 10. yea, the Guilt of this Sin is such, that it leaves a Stain, even upon the Land where it is committed, such as is not to be wash’d out, but by the Blood of the Murderers, as appears, Deut. xix, 12, 13. The Land cannot be purged of Blood, but by the Blood of him that shed it; and therefore though in other Cases the flying to the Altar secured a Man, yet in this of wilful Murder no such Refuge was allowed, but such a one was to be taken even thence, and delivered up to Justice, Exod. xxi,. 14. Thou shalt take him from my Altar, that he may die. And it is yet farther observable, that the only two Precepts the Scripture mentions, as given to Noah after the Flood, were both in relation to this Sin; that of not eating Blood, Gen. ix, 4, being a Ceremony to beget in Men a greater Horror of this Sin of Murder, and intended for the preventing of it. The other was for the Punishment of it, Gen, ix, 6. He that sheddeth Man’s Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed ; and the Reason of this Strictness is added in the next Words, For in the Image of God made be Man; where we see that this Sin is not only an Injury to our Brother, but even the highest Contempt and Despite towards God himself; for it is the defacing of his Image which he hath stamped upon Man. ay, it is the usurping of God’s proper Right, and Authority: For it is God alone that hath Right to dispose of the Life of Man; was he alone that gave it, and it is he alone that hath Power to take it away; but he that Murders a Man, does, as it were, wrest this Power out of God’s Hand, which is the highest Pitch of rebellious Presumption.

I let him see the Heinousness of this Sin, from the exemplary Punishments many of the first Rank have met with for the same, and how strangely it hath been discovered, very often their own guilty Consciences proving their Accusers; and it hath been seen in many, who, after the Commission of this Sin, have never been able to enjoy a Minute’s Rest, but have had that intolerable Anguish of Mind, that they have chosen to be their own Murderers, rather than live in it. These are the usual Effects of this Sin even in this World, but those in another are yet more dreadful, where surely the highest Degrees of Torment belong to this high Pitch of Wickedness: For if, as our Saviour tells, Matt. v, 22. Hell-fire shall be the Portion of him that shall but call his Brother Fool, what Degree of those Burnings can we think proportionable to this so much greater an Injury?

I instructed him in the Nature of the Christian Religion Sacraments, how we were all dedicated to God in Baptism, and that it is a necessary Duty incumbent upon us, to renew our Baptisinal Vows, by partaking in the blessed Sacrament of the Lord’s last Supper, wherein Christ’s Sufferings and Death are represented to us in a visible and lively Manner, and wherein all the Virtue and Efficacy of Christ’s Death and Sufferings are exhibited and seal’d up to every true Believer and sincere Penitent.

While these and many like Exhortations were given, George Watson attended constantly in Chappel, and though he could not read, neither was very knowing in Religious Matters, yet he was most attentive, apparently serious and devout, both in Time of Prayers and Praises, and when I instructed him; and upon all Occasions he behaved with a deal of Humility, Modesty and Civility.

Upon Friday the 2d of July, Report was made to the Queen’s most excellent Majesty in Council, of George Watson , a Malefactor, lying in the Cells of Newgate , under Sentence of Deaths, and he was ordered for Execution.

George Watson , otherwise, Yorkshire George, was indicted (with John Hemming , and Robert Hemming , not taken) for assaulting Samuel Alexander , and giving him with a whip, value 6 d. one mortal Wound on the upper Part of the left Side of his Head, of the Length and Depth of one Inch, of which Wound (in the Parish of St. Luke, Middlesex ) he died , May 17th, 1733, in the sixth Year of his Majesty’s Reign.

I. George Watson , Fifty-five Years of Age, of honest Parents, fire Miles from Hull in Yorkshire , had no Education at School, and not much Knowledge of religious Matters, neither was put to any Trade; but when of Age, he serv’d Gentlemen in the Country; and having past his Time some Years nigh to the Place of his Nativity, he came to London as a Gentleman’s Servant , and from thence he went down to Kent in the same Station, where he liv’d for some Time, and did labouring Work in the Country, till at last he settled, and commenced Farmer in the Isle of Shippey , where he married a Wife , and had some Children, his eldest Daughter, now in Shippey with her Friend, and in Service; and his Son abort fourteen Years of Age, in Service of a Gentleman upon Finchley -Common; these two were of the first Marriage; his Wife dying, he married another Wife of the Isle of Shippey , about six or seven Years ago, when he thought fit to give over his Farm, (upon Advice of those whom he took to be his Friends, though in effect they now appear to have been the Reverse) and to convert all his Stock to Money,

which he was to employ in the Smuggling-Trade , they having persuaded him, that there was much more Money to be got that way, and that he could not fail enriching himself soon: This Advice he follow’d to his Destruction; after he took this Resolution, he never was easy in his Mind, but was perpetually in Trouble, and expos’d to the Danger of his Life; he and all his Companions having been a sort of abandon’d, desperate Men, resolv’d to hazard their Lives upon every Occasion, when any Soldiers, or Custom-house Officers, endeavour’d to disturb them in running uncustom’d Goods.

George, after throwing up his Farm in Shippey, apply’d himself wholly to Smuggling, in which however he had been cencern’d almost since he was a Boy, particularly all the Time he liv’d in the Isle of Shippey, which was Twenty-seven Years, at the End of which Time he brought his Family ear this Town, and took a House in Finchley : There they have dwelt since, and of late, that his private Trading might not be taken Notice of; he has pretended to be a Dealer in Horses, having had pretty good Skill that way, and furnish’d several Gentlemen in that Neighbourhood with fine Horses. This or any other Business he did, being for most Part but a Pretence, that he follow’d most, took greatest Pleasure in, and had most Advantage by, viz. his Smuggling, might ot be observed. George was a tall, well made, stout Man, and fit for such desperate Enterprizes, as that Sett of Men, viz, Smugglers, daily set about, and upon that Account he was esteem’d by the rest, who for Distinction, with Allusion to the Country he was born in, call’d him Yorkshire George.

As to the Murder of Samuel Alexander , the Watchman , by Bunhill fields , or Bunhill-row , upon the 17th May,1733; he acknowledg’d, as George Walker swore against him, that he was upon May 16, three Years ago, in Company with 15 or 16 Men of their Gang, who rode together from William Yarrow ’s at Red-hill , between Cobbam and Ripley , cross the Country to Highgate , where they parted, being 15 or 16 Men, and 20 Horses, going for London to dispose of their Goods to the best Advantage: Watson, Walker the Evidence, and the two Hemmings’s, keeping together till they came to Bunhill Row , about which Place they lost some of their Tea, Walker swore it was George Watson ’s, was taken and carried off by two Watchmen; upon which Two, who used to serve them, whom they call’d Tom the Shoemaker, and Bess the Carrier, from whom the Tea was taken, made a Complaint to them that their Tea was seized: Then all the four went in Pursuit of the two Watch

and Samuel Alexander had the Misfortune to be killed, by the Blow of something that was heavy and blunt, and this the Evidence explained to be the But-end of Watson’s Whip, with which he broke in Pieces some Part of the Skull of the Left Side of the Deceas’d’s Head, of which Wound he died about twelve o’Clock at Noon the same Day, being the 17th of May, 1733; Walker did not say that he saw Watson do this, only that George Watson told him he had broken the Shaft of his Whip upon one of the Watchmen, or that he had nointed one of them handsomely, or Words to that Effect.

George Watson seemed to be displeased, alledging, that the Proof was not clear, and denying some Part of Walker’s Evidence.

I told him that the Proof was such as is commonly given in ambiguous Affairs of that Nature, as Murder must be allowed to be, few Men having so much Ingenuity, as plainly to declare that they committed Murder upon any other Person, unless the same appear upon Evidence some other Way, the common Proof in such a Cafe being only Circumstances and Presumption, which were not wanting in his Affair, the same being confirmed by the circumstantial Evidence of Edward Laurence , Jonathan Everet , in the Porch of whose House Samuel Alexander was killed, and Mrs. Mary Taylor , though they could not positively swear to the Face, it being about three in the Morning, when it was dark and duskish, which also was the Occasion of some Difference abont the Colour of their Horses; and had not John Wilson the surviving Watchman , got over a Wall, as they on Horseback were furiously pursuing them for Recovery of their Tea, which was carried off and concealed in narrow dark Alleys, where it was impossible to trace their Foot steps, or to find out how the Tea was disposed, had not Wilson slipt off very narrowly, in all Probability, he had undergone the same Fate with poor Alexander, who went into Mr. Everet’s Porch, whence there was no Possibility for his Escape from the desperate Blows he got on his Skull, which kill’d and murder’d him at once.

Mr. Watson made but a mean Defence, as to what was said against him, alledging, that he met with John Hemming and George Walker , who told him, the Watch had taken away their Tea in Bunhill-Fields , and that they had beat one of them sufficiently, who they were afraid would not recover.

But this was only retorting the Argument upon them, which Walker used against himself; and although

Watson Inclined to reflect upon the Evidence, yet he offered his Evidence against the rest, having been taken up some Months agoe upon an Extent of 450 l. and seeing his Life in Danger (as being already in Prison in Newgate ) for the Murder of Samuel Alexander , in which he knew himself to be concerned, he was willing to have cast the Blame upon another, but in this he was prevented by George Walker , who had given himself up for a voluntary Evidence, so his Offer was rejected.

In Extenuation of his Guilt, he only said he had not any Thought or Design of Murder, but whatever happened was by Accident of a Quarrel, upon Account of the Watchmen taking some of their Tea, which was his Property, but as to the giving the unhappy Blow, he could not be positive who gave it.

I convinced him, that his being equally concerned in the Quarrel, upon which Murder ensued, made him equally guilty of the Fact with any of the rest, though he had not killed the Man with his own Hand, and that the Law admitted of no Accessary in the Cafe of Murder, all present, or any Way concerned, being equally guilty and also liable to Punishment.

The Truth of all this he owned, and heartily forgave every Body, not retaining the least Rancour or Malice in his Heart against any.

Three or four Days after Sentence, his Wife came from the Country to see him, having left the House at Finchley; she met with him in the Press-Yard as he came down from Chapel; at meeting both of them shewed the greatest Tenderness imaginable, the Wife crying in a most lamentable Manner.

They embraced each other very tenderly, and with so feeling a Sympathy, that all the By-standers were sensibly affected at such a melancholy Sight.

The Day before he suffered, he, with a Gentleman who desired to partake with him, received the Sacrament of the Lord’s-Supper, in a very devout Manner: Just as the Service was ended, some of the Runners belonging to Newgate told him, that his Son was come to Town to see him before he died.

He complained to me, because they had told his Son of his unhappy Misfortune, not desiring to see him in the Height of his Distress, and he was so perplexed and disturb’d, that he sighed, groaned, and wept; and when he went down Stairs meeting with the Boy, who was about Fourteen Years old, they both cried most bitterly.

Though George behaved very Christianly under his Misfortune, yet I never observed him weep, but at the first meeting with his Wife and eldest Son.

He owned that the Smuggling Way is a most dangerous Course, and that upon many Occasions, they fought with the King’s Officers and Soldiers, when many were wounded and much Blood spilt on both Sides, but denied that ever Manslaughter or Murder ever happened when he was in Company.

About five Years ago he was taken up on Suspicion of Murder, there having been a Man shot on the Coast in Kent , and he was kept in double Irons in the New Goal in Southwark for Three or Four Months, there having been at that Time a Design to try him at Maidstone Assizes

But he making it appear, that at the Time when the said Murder happened, he was at London , under Cure of a Surgeon, for one of his Fingers, which was almost quite torn away by a Whip accidentally twisting about it; which Instrument, viz. a Whip, hath proved ominous and fatal to poor Watson another Whip proving Occasion of the Loss of his Life in an ignominious Manner.

He grievously lamented for his Wife and young Children, besides a Son and Daughter of the first Marriage, who are of some Age, capable to do a little for themselves, having two young Infants and his Wife big with Child.

He was a loving Husband and a tender Father, and very careful in providing for his Family.

He owned that he passed a rude wicked Life among the Smugglers, who led him into a very vicious

debauched Way, in drinking to Excess, swearing, quarrelling, and fighting. He said his Wife was a very good virtuous Woman.

He was altogether illiterate, and could neither read nor write, yet he had more Knowledge than many of these unfortunate Creatures, and gave very diligent Heed to Instructions and Exhortations, and was most thankful for all the Pains taken upon him.

He declared that he hoped for Salvation by the Mercy of God, through the Merits of Jesus Christ; that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and died in Peace with all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THE Morning that he went to Execution, I read Prayers to him in the Chappel, where he appear’d very serious and devout; after I had done praying by him, he came down from Chappel, and had his Irons knock’d off in the Press-Yard, from thence he was put in a Cart, between Eight and Nine o’Clock, and carried to Tyburn; when he came to the Place of Execution, he seem'd to be shock’d when he saw the fatal Place, where he was to make his Exit; after he had been there some short Time, I went into the Cart to him, and pray’d by him, and sung a Penitential Psalm, and then prayed again to him; after I had done, I asked him if he had any Thing to add to his former Confessions, he reply’d, he forgave all Men, and he hop’d God would forgive him.

Likewise he hoped no Body would be so unchristianly to reflect upon his Wife and four Children, which was his last Request; and he hoped God of his infinite Mercy would protect them, and preserve them from all Evil.

And lastly, I thank you good Sir, for your Care of me, since I have been under these unhappy Circumstances.

He went off the Stage, crying out, that he heartily forgave all the World; and God be merciful to my Soul. Lord Jesus receive my Spirit.

This is all the Account given of this unfortunate Person, By Me, JAMES GUTHRIE . Ordinary and Chaplain of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

THE Case of George Watson being somewhat extraordinary; in Regard to his being he only Smuggler that for many Years has suffered at Tyburn , the Publick will probably be well pleased to know the Sense this Man had of his Misfortunes when he found Death inevitable, and consequently to conceal or misrepresent the Truth.

He was a Man of a tollerable Capacity, and was therefore easily brought to comprehend that the Life he had led, was flagrantly wicked, inasmuch as it was directly opposite to the Laws of God and this Kingdom. He said one great Occasion of his betaking himself to Smuggling, was the Situation of the Place where he liv’d, which afforded him frequent Opportunities of running or of concealing run Goods: That of late Years it was become so common a Practice, that few People looked on it as a Crime, farther than as it was dangerous, and that the great Profits accruing from this Practice, made the Danger of it less considered. He said therefore, the best way to hinder Smuggling, was to prevent its being beneficial; since if there was still a Possibility of making much Money in a little Time, there would be bold People ready to run all Hazard on that Account. He often deplored the Misfortune they were under in the Country, or not understanding thoroughly the Iniquity and Danger of Smuggling, as a Sin against God, and a Crime against the Law.

He said it would be a great Charity of Clergymen, who had Benefices in the Isles of Sheppey and Thanet, and other Places on the Coast, to inform their ignorant Parishoners of the Obligations they are under, to live honestly by some lawful Employment, and not to think of getting Bread by defrauding the Government of what is its Due, and thereby daily commit Injustice, and at the same Time hazard the Commission of Murder and other Crimes. That these Discourses could not fail of having a proper Effect upon the Minds of poor Men, well enough disposed in themselves,

till through the Prospect of great Gains, and repeated Persuasions of Men of soul Hearts and fair Tongues, they are once brought to enter drunk or sober, on a Scene of Life which is not after to be forsook.

He complained likewise, that the penal Laws were not commonly understood, or generally known through the Country, so that tender hearted People were prevailed on to do that as an Act of good Neighbourhood, which was punishable in itself, and being afterwards threatned for this, were easily drawn to other Things to make themselves amends.

He suggested that if the penal Laws, relating to the Customs and Excise, were put into a plain Book, and left in the Vestry of the Church in Maritime Places and elsewhere, it might be of great Use; for it is somewhat hard, at least in the Opinion of such Folks as he, that Men, at the Peril of their Lives in some Cases, and of their Goods and Persons in all, should take Notice of, Acts of Parliament, they can have few Opportunities of Reading.

He protested that he was very well satisfied with the Justice of that Law by wish he died, and of all the Laws against Smuggling; but he said, it were to be wished shat People of Estates and Distinction, who had all the Opportunites of knowing the Law they could desire, and at the same Time under no Temptation to break them, would curb their Inclinations for run and prohibited Goods, and not buy for the Sake of some Abatement of Price, or Beauty in the Commodity, Teas or Silks inctured with the Blood of poor Men: It lay in their Power he said in a great Measure, to repress this Evil, for Smuglers like Thieves, would no longer have any Desire to sin, when through Want of Receivers, all Hopes of Profit were taken away; for as he observed, what Likelihood can there be of suppressing Smugglers, when hardly one Gentleman in five, but has a run Handkerchief in his Pocket, and while the best Families in the Kingdom make no Scruple of drinking their Tea, provided they can have it safely and two Shillings in a Pound under Price.

He was far from blaming the Evidence (Walker) who swore against him, for he owned that he had applied to two Magistrates in order to have made the same Discovery himself.

He was very affectionate towards his Family, and very desirous of vindicating himself from the Imputation of Things he had no Hand in, such as the Murder of one Mr. Hill a Custom-House Officer, for which he had been taken up, tried at the Assizes at Maidstone for the County of Kent, and acquitted.

He declared, that if People knew the Fatigue, the Danger, and Trouble of Smuggling, they would be very cautious how they engaged in it; Since within the Space of a few Years, he

had been confined in fix several Goals, and been put to the Expence of a Thousand Pounds at least to procure his Liberty; so that he concluded, that with half the Pains and Industry, necessary to get Money in this, a Man might live in an honest comfortable Way, without running the Hazard of killing others, or being kill’d himself.

On Sunday Evening, about Five o'Clock his Son a Lad of about 14, came to see him, he was at first very much discomposed, but recollecting himself by degrees, he spoke to the Lad kindly, and with much good Sense; he told him that there would be but few who would reflect on him for the disastrous Death of his Father, and that on the contrary, most People would pity him for it, and be inclined to do him all the good they could; that it would be his Duty to make a right Use of this, to avoid loose Company, to go regularly to Church, and to think of getting his Bread honestly at some good Trade, since he would not be left destitute in the World, but would have the Means provided him of living honestly if he pleased, he then prayed God to bless him, to make him a Comfort to his Mother, and an Assistant to his Family.

He afterwards spoke to a Neighbour that came with came with his son, took Notice of the Kindness of the Action, in taking upon him the Care of an unhappy Man's Child, intreated him to think of some proper Trade for his Son and to see him bound to it with the Money left him by his Relation; his Neighbour said he would, and she wed at the same Time, the greatest Compassion towards the Father, and Concern for the Son.

Mr. Watson professed a great Readiness forgive all such as had any way injured him, believing it the only Means by which he could merit Forgiveness in the World to come; and he seemed to take great Pleasure in the Hopes that the late Act of Parliament, would effectually put an End to the pernicious Practice of Smugling, and prevent any unhappy Man from falling undesignedly a Victim to Justice, as he had done, for the sake of People who have dealt that way. (many of whom will, no doubt, read this Dying Speech) It may be proper to take Notice, that by this Act all Persons, who have incurred any Penalty by clandestine running of Goods, making false Entries, or abusing Officers of the Revenue, before the 27th of April, 1736, are indemnified by this Act; but in case such Persons, after taking the Benefit thereof, shall afterwards be guilty of the like Offence, then they shall be liable to Prosecution, not only for the new Offences, but for the old likewise,

and in Case these Offences, incurred by the Laws now in being, Transportation, upon Conviction of the like Offences, the Offender shall suffer Death.

In Regard to the wicked and dangerous Practice, now common on the Sea Coasts, and in the Neighbourhood of trading Towns in this Kingdom, for Persons to assemble themselves in Arms, with Intent either to run Goods, or to prevent the Officers from seizing them, it is by this Act of Parliament provided, that a Justice of Peace may, on Information upon Oath, that three or more Persons have so assembled, may grant his Warrant to apprehend them, and if he shall see just Cause may commit them to the County-Goal, without Bail or Mainprize, 'till delivered by due Course of Law.

And in Case such Persons shall be convicted of assembling in such a Manner, to assist in running of Goods, then they shall be transported as Felons for the Space of seven Years; and in Case they return before the Expiration of that Time, shall suffer Death, For the better apprehending and taking such Persons, a Reward is to be given of Fifty Pounds, payable upon Conviction, as also Fifty Pounds to any Person maimed or desperately wounded in attempting to apprehend such Offenders, and Fifty Pounds to the Executors of any Person killed on such Occasion; two or more Persons passing, within five Miles of the Sea, or any navigable River, with a Horse, Cart or Carriage, loaden with Six Pounds of Tea, five Gallons of Brandy, or other Spirits, carrying offensive Arms, or being masqued, shall be transported for seven Years; any Persons lurking within five Miles of the Sea, or a navigable River, on Information given to a Justice of the Peace, that they are justly suspected of waiting there to assist in the running Goods, may, by the said Justice of Peace, in Case they can give no satisfactory Account of themselves, their Callings, or Employments, be sent to the House of Correction, there to be whipp'd, and kept to hard Labour for any Time under a Month; Watermen, Carmen, or others, employed in carrying of Goods, Wares, or Merchandize, that have not paid Duty, are to pay treble the Value of the Goods, and if they are not able to pay that, are to be sent to the House of Correction, there to be whip'd and kept to hard Labour for any Time not exceeding three Months.

Also all keepers of publick Houses, knowingly harbouring any Person concerned in Smugling, shall suffer the Penalty of One Hundred Pound,

and be rendered incapable of ever having License, or of keeping in any Manner of Way, Tavern, or other Publick-House; with various other Clauses of a like Tenor, which it may be justly hoped will deter all People, in their Senses, from meddleing in such Things for the future.

ADVERTISMENTS.

This Day is publish’d, In Two Volumes in Octavo, Price fourteen Shillings.

SELECT TRIALS at the SessionsHouse in the Old-bailey, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, coining, Frauds, and other Offences, form the Year 1720 to the present Time; chiefly transcrib’d from Notes taken in Court, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. These Trials, &c. are not to be met with in any other Collection.

These two Volumes contain the Trials of Hawkins and Sympson for robbing the Bristol Mail, with an Account of all their Robberies; of Spiggot the famous Highwayman that bore 350 lb. Weight on his Breast; of Butler, Barton, Fox, Hawes, Wright, Colthouse, Drury, Warwick, Yates, Armstrong, Beck, Edwards, and many other, all famous Highwaymen, and StreetRobbers; of Arthur Grey the famous Footman for Burglary, with an Intent to ravish Mrs. Murray; of Dr Kraaft, Pritchard, Simmonds, Cook, Ellis, and many others for Rapes, all very entertaining; of Capt. Stanley, for the Murder of his Whore; of Brinsdon, Crony, Nichols, Mac-Gennis; Lutterell, the famous Nanny Butler , Vaughan and Cholmly (two Constables) Forster Snow, and many others for Murder; also Major Oneby, for the Murder of Mr. Gower, with his Life; of Vezey and Hallam, for the Murder of their Wives; of Richard Savage , Esq ; for Murder, with his Life; Capt. Jane for Murder, Edward Strafford , Esq ; and many others; of Sally Salisbury , for an Attempt to stab the Hon. J - F -, Esq; of Sir Charles Burton , Bart . for Felony; of Duffus, Gabriel Lawrence, and a great many others for Sodomy, shewing all the Tricks and Methods used by the Mollies; of Squire Day alias Davenport for a Cheat, and several others for Bilking their Lodgings; of two German Counts for forging a Bank Note; of Johnathan Wild for several Felonies, with several Particulars of his Life, neverbefore published; of Mrs. Gregory, for marrying Squire Cockeril, uder pretence of being a great Fortune; of the infamous Catherine Hays , who murder’d her Husband, and lay with another Man the same Night; of Mrs. Sherman, for giving Poison to Mr. Chevet; of Vevers the Bricklayer, on all his Indictments; of Mary Hendron ; for marrying Miss Morris to an Irishman against her Consent; of blind Cowper and Harpham, and other for Coining; of Russel for a Misdemeanour, for endeavouring to carry away Mrs. Benson; of William Hales , Esq ; and Parson Kinnersley for Forgery; of Atkinson for the Murder of his Mother at Charing-cress; with a great Number of diverting Tryals of Whores for robbing those that pick’d them up; and several other remarkable ones, for the Highway, Rapes, Murder, Burglaries, &c.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trials; among which are upwards of seventy Tryals for Murder, near Sixty of Whores for privately stealing, uwards of one Hundred for the Highway, about Thirty for Rapes; the rest being for Frauds Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy Bigamy, Shop-lifting, Riots Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single Felonies &c. &c. &c.

Sold by J. Roberts, in Warwick-Lane, and by all the Booksellers and Phamphlet-Shops in Town:

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictiments, and other Persons concern’d in Prosecutions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers; and every Number contains more in Quantity, and is cheaper than any thing ever publish’d this Way.

These Trials, which make 26 Numbers, were Published once a Fortnight; and such Persons as want any Numbers to compleat their Setts, are desired to send for them very speedily, or it will be impossible ever to complete them.

Just Publish’d, BOOKS, Printed for, and Sold by Joseph Hazard , at the Bible, against Stationers-Hall, near Ludgate .

1. THE HOLY WEEK; or PASSION Week before Easter, in Meditations, &c. on the last Sufferings of our Saviour Jesus Christ, 3d. price 4d.

2. The Church of England-man's private Devotions, being a Collection of Prayers out of the CommonPrayer Book: To which is added, the Feasts and Fasts of the Church of England explained. 12 mo.pr. 1 s.

3. Preparations to a Holy Life; or Devotions for Families and private Persons. Also Meditations and prayers for the Holy, Time of Lent. 12mo: price, 1 Shilling.

The above by the Author of the Week's Preparation to the Sacrament.

4. The Weeks Preparation to the Sacrament, 12mo. 45th edit. Pr. 1 s.

5. Bishop Kenn’s Manual of Prayers, 12mo. 25th edit pr. 1 s.

6. Dorrington’s Reform'd Devotion: To which is added, An Holy Office before, at, and after the Sacrament, by Dr. Lake. 12mo. 9th edit: pr. 3 s.

7. Rules for our Behaviour in Divine Service of the Church; with an Account of the Hours and Daily Prayers in the Churches of London and Westminster. pr. 4 d

8. Sacramental Devotions, consisting of Prayers to be used before, at, and after the Sacrament: 8th edit pr. 1 s.

9. Devotions for the Altar; or select Prayers to be used at the Receiving the Holy Communion, 12mo.pr. 6 d.

10. King's Sacramental Devotions, compiled out of the Church Liturgy, and other eminent Tracts of Devotions, for private Use, 5th edit. pr. 1 s.

11. A practical Discourse on the Parable of the Prodigal Son. pr. 1 s.

12. Dr Horneck's crucified Jesus, 7th edit. pr. 5 s.

13. - on Consideration, 11th edit. pr. 4 s.

14. - Happy Ascetick; or, the best Exercise, 6th edit. pr. 4S.

15. - the Delight and Judgment; or, the Great Affize, 3d edit. pr. 2 s

16. - Fire of the Altar; with a Dialogue between, a Christian and his own Conscience, concerning the true Nature of the Christian Religion, 15th edit. pr. 1 s.

17. The History of the Bible, with 200 Copper Plates, 12mo. pr. 2 s.

Where may be had,

All sorts of Bibles and Common-prayer-Books, by Wholesale and Retale and Books neatly found at the lowest Prices.

D. R. NELSON, being well known to have made the Cure of SEMINAL and GENITAL Imbicilities, and all Disorders of the Reins, Kidney’s and Bladder, his chief Study and Practicer of above 30 Years, does recommend his most Noble Cleansing and Strengthening Elixir, which Thousands of People (many of them of a high Rank) have happily experience, and is by Numbers of Physicians and Surgeons approv’d, as the only BALSAMICK HEALING and RESTORING Medicine to be depended upon in the World,

For GLEETS and WEAKNESSES,

THE Bane of Virility or Manhood, in the one Sex, and Destroyer of Fertility on the Bearing of Children in the other, whether from ill cur’d Venereal Infections, (than which nothing is more common) or from inordinate Coition, or Self Pollution (that cursed School of Wickedness, which spoil all our Youth, by nipping their Manhood in the Bud) or from involuntary Emissions a nights in the Sleep, or in the Day Time, upon Stool, or with the Urine; or from Falls, Blows, Strains, Wrenches, or the like, which drain and dry up the Seminals, and wither, as it were, the Generative Faculties, causing Impotency on Men, the Fluor Albus, or Barreness in Women nor but a weakly, sickly Offspring if any); and in the long Run (by impoverishing the Blood and Spirits) Melancholy, Vapours, Decays of Nature and Consumptions.

No Medicine can he more pleasant to take, nor any Thing upon Earth more effectual for the Purpose; for let the Imbecility be ever so great, or of ever so long standing, and be either in the Parts, Spermatick Vessels, or Back, with Pain or without, it certainly Cures, by reviving and enriching the Blood and Spirits, comforting, nourishing, and replenishing the Reins and Seminals, and strengthening, and restoring the Genital Parts in both Sexes, how much, soever weakned, rendered cold, or deadned, and bringing them to their natural Force, Warmth, and Vigour, by thickening and fertilizing the Seed, which before, was thin, waterish, or, or yellowish, and consequently insufficient, either for pocreation or the Act of it.

All Disorders of the Urine, as Difficulty in the making or retaining it, or its dribbling away hot or finarting, or foul, filmy, thready, greasy, or stinking, whether from Gravel, Stone, Strangury or a Venereal Cause, are likewise Speedily cured by it, and the Water made to be held as strongly, and yet brought away as freely, easily, full stream'd, and clear as ever.

These are the real Vertues of this great Medicine, which could all who Stand in need of it, (but have not yet tried it) be made as sensible of, as those Numbers of People are, who have tried it, they would gladly and quickly too, have recourse to it.

Price 5 s. a Bottle. Prepared by the abovesaid Anthor, and sold only (Sealed up with Directons how to take it and how to discover whither the Gleet or a Weakness be Veneral or not) at Mr. ISTED's a Bookseller, at the Golden-Ball, between St. Dunstan's Church and Chancery-Lane End in Fleet-street, asking only for a Bottle of 5 s. Elixir.

FINIS.

