THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confessions, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were EXECUTED at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 14th of this Instant FEBRUARY, 1731.

BEING THE SECOND EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. FRANCIS CHILD , Esq ;

Number II. For the said YEAR.

LONDON:

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M.DCC.XXXI.

[Price Three-Pence.]

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, held (before the Right Hon. FRANCIS CHILD , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. the Lord Chief Baron Reynolds; the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn, the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London, and Justices of the Gaol-Delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old Bailey , on Friday, Saturday, Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, being the 14th, 15th, 17th, 18th and 19th of January, 1731-2, in the Fifth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Two Men, viz. Robert Hallam and George Scroggs , were by the Jury found Guilty of capital Offences, and receiv'd Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were instructed from those Words, But as many as received him, to them gave he Power to become the Sons of God, even to them that believe in his Name: St. John i. 12. I took occasion to insist upon the Nature of saving Faith, which is properly the only Condition of the Gospel-Covenant. This Faith (I told them) is, an assured knowledge of God's good Will towards us, founded upon the Truth of his gracious Promise in Christ, made known to our Minds, and seal'd upon our Hearts by the Holy Ghost. This Faith is a special Grace bestow'd upon him by Almighty God, and produc'd in our Hearts, by the powerful Mo

tions of the Holy Ghost, who effectually Works in them who believe: And therefore, I desir'd them to admire and adore the infinite Grace of God, in contriving and carrying on the Work of our Redemption, by this new Covenant which is order'd in all Things and sure; and most properly call'd the Covenant of Grace, as founded upon and entirely proceeding from the free Grace and Love of God in Christ Jesus; as the Apostle St. Paul, representeth the Matter, For by Grace are ye saved, through Faith, and that not of your Selves, it is the Gift of God, Eph. ii. 8. Since then it is only by the Grace of God we are saved, in whom all our Thoughts, Words and Actions are begun, continued and ended, that we may glorify his Holy Name; I exhorted them to Pray incessantly to Almighty God, that he would give unto them his Holy Spirit, to Guide them by his Counsel, that they might afterwards be receiv'd into Glory: And this in conformity to the Precept of our Saviour Christ, Seek and ye shall find; Ask, and ye shall receive; Knock, and it shall be opened unto you: For every one that asketh, receiveth: And he that seeketh, findeth: And to him that knocketh, it shall be opened. St. Matt. vii. 7, 8. And as the Apostle saith, For it is God which worketh in you, both will and to do of his good Pleasure. Phil. ii. 13. And as this Faith in Christ may be called the Cardinal Christian Grace, since from it proceed all other heavenly Virtues, it is always accompanied with the peaceable Fruits of Righteousness, which are to the Glory and Praise of God: In Consequence of which, if endowed with this saving Grace of Faith, they must of Necessity repent of all their Sins, particularly, those henious, crying, scandalous and abominable Sins, of which they were Convicted, and this Repentance I told them chiefly consisted, in acknowledging and confessing there Sins before God and Man; in loathing, detesting, and abhoring themselves in Dust and Ashes because of them; and in making firm Resolutions, if they were spared by the Grace of God, to reform and amend the Evil of their Ways and Doings, to become wholly new Creatures, that whereas formerly they had been the Servants of Sin unto Unrighteousness, henceforth they would become the obedient Servants of Righteousness unto Holyness. And thus if they believ'd in Christ, and repented of all their Sins, and lov'd God with all their whole Heart, Soul, Strength and Mind, they might be

assured, that God would be gracious and merciful unto them, that he would Pardon their unrighteousness, and remember their iniquities no more; and that he would bless them with Grace here, and Glory everlasting hereafter.

I exhorted them to a serious Preparation for Death, since the Loss of Life, and the last Pains wherewith it is lost, are the least Part of Death, this is all to brute Creatures; but to the dying Man, Death appears with another Face, and in another Light. He is not to be resolved into nothing, like the Beasts that perish; he is to launch into an eternal, unfathomable, unknown Gulph, into Eternity of Happiness, or into Eternity of Misery. And what a dreadful Moment must then that needs be, when we are upon the very Edge and Brink of the Precipice! It must be of unspeakable Joy to a good Man, to think upon Death and Eternity; for when he looks backward, he sees a Life well spent, when forward, a Prospect of bright Light and Glory: But what a Damp must it be upon a wicked Man, not to know whither he's going out of this World, and when his Soul is dislodg'd from the Body, who shall give him the first Greeting, whether an Angel, or a Devil; what a terrible State is this! But if a Man hath been so enormous in his Life, as to be in utter Despair of his Salvation, what Words can sufficiently express his piful Condition! With what Amazement will he look backward and forward upon his Sins, and upon his approaching Account! upon his rejecting the many Calls to Salvation, which are now hid from his Eyes for ever. At other Times he may have some Remorses, but his Apprehensions are never so lively and piercing as now, when he thinks that immediately he's to drop into the bottomless Pit; but the Way to escape those heavy and intolerable Judgments, is, to throw themselves upon the Mercy of God in Christ, who is able and willing to save unto the Uttermost, all who come unto God through Him.

I insisted upon the heinous Sin of Theft and Robbery, how ruinous it was to all human Society, contrary to and destructive of our reasonable Natures, and making Men like unto so many Devils, who are intent upon the Destruction of Mankind, always going about like roaring Lions, seeking whom they may devour. I told them of the Cause of this Sin, Covetousness, alienating the Mind from God, and centering their Affections on corruptible Dust; and the Attendants of it, Whoring, Drinking, and the most profligate Company, bringing them into the Practice of all vicious Habits, and frequently accompanied with Murther; and of the dreadful Consequences of it, Remorse of Conscience and Vexation of Mind in this Life, and eternal Damnation in the next World, if not sincerely repented of.

Robert Hallam having been convicted of Murther, I insisted at some Length, in showing him the grievous Nature and terrible Consequences of this most horrid and crying Sin: How that it is a Breach of the express Law of God, Thou shalt not kill, or, Thou shalt do no Murther; that it is an unnatural and barbarous Sin, transforming Man, who is a sociable Creature, into the Similitude of Lions, Wolves and Tygers, and other Beasts and Birds of Prey, that are set upon doing Mischief to, and devouring their fellow Creatures; that it is the greatest Sin one can be guilty of, as endeavouring, what in the Murtherer lies, to destroy both the Body and Soul of a Man, and to send him to the bottomless Pit at once; that it is a rebellious Usurpation of a Privilege peculiar to Almighty God himself, I kill, and I make alive, Deut. 32. 39. That Murther is the Devil's peculiar Sin, and therefore our blessed Saviour says, Ye are of your Father the Devil, and the Lusts of your Father ye will do; he was a Murtherer from the Beginning, and abode not in the Truth, because there is no Truth in him, Joh. 8. 44. And as Murther is thus a dreadful Sin in its Nature, so no less terrible it is in its Consequences, and the Punishments inflicted upon the Murtherer; who is appointed by God himself to be punish'd with Death in this Life, Who so sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed; for in the Image of God made he Man, Gen. 9. 6. And accordingly we find, that in no Country whatsoever, the Murtherer is suffered to pass unpunished. King David, in other respects, a godly, virtuous Prince, for the Murther of Uriah his faithful Subject, was punish'd in his Person, Estate and Family, in all succeeding Ages But what are all temporal Punishments, in-Comparison of that eternal Vengeance which is due to the Murtherer? He is always reckon'd up in the List of that infernal Crew of Sinners, who have their Portion assign'd them with Hypocrites and Unbelievers, in Lakes of Fire and Brimstone, for ever and ever. I show'd him also, that the nearer the Relation is, so much greater must the Sin be committed against such a Person; but so it is, that a Man's Wife is a Part of himself, yea, she is all one with him, so that as the Scripture represents the Matter, They are no more two, but one Flesh, Eph. 5. 31. And accordingly, A Man ought to love his Wife as himself. So ought Men to love their Wives, as their own Bodies, He that loveth his Wife, loveth himself, Eph. 5. 28. And Men being thus united to their Wives, by natural and religious Obligations, I expos'd to him the Unnaturalness and Barbarity of Treating his Wife in a cruel and outrageous Manner; and that although, according to his own Supposition, he did not actually throw her out of the Window, yet by his unmerciful beating of her, he reduced her to despair, which, with the Fear and Terror upon her Spirit, forced

her to throw herself out at the Window, and so to put an End to her miserable Life, and that of her poor Infant, in such a desperate Way; and by this Means, I convinced him, that he was guilty of a double Murther, both of his Wife and Child at once, who were a Part of himself.

I instructed them also in the Nature of the Christian Sacraments, and that it was necessary to renew their Covenant with God, by partaking in the Blessed Sacrament of the Lord's Supper, as a proper Means to dispose them for another World. When these and many like Instructions were given, both of them attended punctually in Chapel, and behav'd gravely, particularly Mr. Hallam, was very decent in his Carriage, though at first he sometimes wept; yet he came to be of a more composed, manly Temper, and was apparently most attentive, both to Prayers and Exhortations. Scroggs was a little stupid and indifferent, but both of them always made regular Responses, and declar'd themselves Penitent for their Sins.

Upon Wednesday the 9th of February, 1731-2, the Report of the said two Malefactors was made to His Majesty in Council, when the said Malefactors, viz. Robert Hallam and George Scroggs , were ordered for Execution. After this, Robert Hallam appear'd more concern'd, wept and shed Tears; but Scroggs was much after one with what he had been before, viz. stupid, obstinate and indifferent.

Robert Hallam , of St. Ann's in Middlesex , was indicted, for that he, by a devilish Instigation, and of Malice afore-thought, on the 9th of December last, on Jane his Wife , then being big with Child, and in a Room one Pair of Stairs high, did make an Assault with both his Hands, and out of a Window in the said Room, did throw the said Jane on a Stone Pavement, whereby she was mortally bruised on her Back, Loins and other Parts, of which she instantly died; and so he wilfully, and of Malice afore-thought, did kill and murder the said Jane.

He was a second Time indicted on the Coroner's Inquisition for the said Murther.

Robert Hallam , 34 Years Age, of honest Parents, who liv'd the next Door to the House where this unfortunate Accident for which he died befel him, had good Education at School in Reading, Writing and Accompts, to fit him for Business, and was instructed in Christian Principles. When of Age, he serv'd his Time at Sea, with Approbation of his Master, study'd Navigation, and sometimes he went as Mate of Ships , and behav'd himself always well at Sea, in whatever Station he was in, having been an expert, knowing Sailor . He liv'd well, was

a good Manager of what he gain'd, was very honest in his Dealings, and carried discreetly and civilly to every body, having had a good Character in the Neighbourhood, and been lov'd and respected among all his Acquaintance. About 11 or 12 Years ago, after he had been several Voyages at Sea, in the West-Indies and a great many other Places of the World, he married a Wife, the unfortunate Jane, for whom he died. Then he gave over going to Sea, and took himself to Work on the River of Thames as a Waterman , wore the Livery of the London Assurance-Office, and had very good Business in that Way, having had two Wherries constantly employ'd. Being settl'd in this Way of Business, as he said, and getting plenty of Money, for one of his Station, for the Space of nine Years, he continued in good friendship with his Wife, and his Affairs prospered, and his Wife bore him several Children, three of which are still living; but then his Family growing, and thinking to enlarge his Profits, he took up a Publick House, the Care of which he committed to his Wife, while he and his Apprentice ply'd close to the Business of a Waterman upon the River, as before. This Publick House was the Occasion of his Ruin, for from that Time, there was nothing but jangling and discord between them, mutual Jealousies, the greatest Plague of a Family arising, after that they never came to have a good understanding of one another any more. The first Difference was, one Day when he was out, his Wife being besotted with Drink, when he came home, he found a poor old Charr Woman taking care of the House, and her Son drawing the Beer: Being naturally of a hasty Temper, he flew into a violent Fit of Passion, which he was too apt to do, and then, in a most severe manner, he gave his Wife several blows. He alledg'd also, that after they kept an Ale house, she not only drank, but debauch'd otherwise, and this his Boy first inform'd him of; and also that when he was at Gravesend two Nights about his Business, the Lodger in the House went into his Mistress: He severely reprimanded her upon this Information, but she denied all; and upon his insisting on the Subject; and promising not to Male-treat her, she own'd Familiarity with the Fellow four times: Upon this notwithstanding his Word to the Contrary, he beat her most unmercifully. Another Time when he was about a Mile from home, with some Company a Merry making, he knock'd a long Time at the Door, and endeavoured to push it open, but could not; continuing thus near half an Hour and making a great Noise, a Woman lent him a Ladder to step in at the Window; when he was ready to go in, the Wife came very quietly and said, stop Robin, don't break open the Window, I'll open the Door; Then he went in at the Door, and she for excuse pretended to have been in a deep Sleep. When she confess'd the other Matter, he ask'd her what she was

that Night? She said, There was a Man who did not live very far off in Company with her, and that her letting him out at the back Door, and then undressing herself, that she might appear to have been a Bed; and all this with great Silence, was the Occasion of her delaying so long to let him in. After this it could not be thought he entertained any good Opinion of her. Notwithstanding these Aspersions, whether true or false, the poor unfortunate Woman had an excellent Character of all the Neighbourhood, for her Behaviour and Conduct, both as to her Modesty, and in other Respects, as several Persons, who came to see him under Sentence, told me; and that they never heard, nor could they believe any ill Report of her. On the other hand, she suspected that he went after strange Women; and they told of him, that he was Familiar with a Woman, whose Husband took it so to Heart, that he fell sick and died; and when he was a dying, he said to his Wife, Your keeping Company with such a Man, hath broken my Heart; the only Request I ask of you is, That you do so no more; but he dying, his Advice was not complied with. I ask'd him about these things. He said, He never kept a Mistress, although he could not altogether plead Innocence, only, That he had not been much Guilty that way.

When he served as a Sailor in Ships, both Men of War and Merchant-men, he said, that he had been over most part of America and the West-Indies ; and that once serving in Capt. Hinds's Ship, they were taken by the Pirates on the Coast of America; and being all put on board the Pirate Ship, the Captain came down to them in the Hold, and exhorted them with the most urgent Reasons he could advance, to sign the Articles: They all with one Consent refused. Then the Pirate Captain said, Gentlemen, It's to no Purpose to use more Words, advance, come up to the Deck; they all came to the Quarter Deck; then the Captain called for a Quarto Bible, and laid it on a Table; then the Captain went down to the Cabbin, and brought up a drawn Sword and a cock'd Pistol; the Pistol he gave to a Black, and said to him, Whoever of these Men doth not what I command him, shoot him thro' the Head, which if you don't do, I'll stab you dead thro' the Body; and in Confirmation he added a Volley of monstrous hellish Oaths; then they open'd the Bible, and four Men were order'd to lay on each of them his Right Hand, upon a Corner of the Book, and to Swear by God and the Holy Evangelists, That he would discover no Secrets pertaining to the Ship, the Good Fortune, and that he would to the utmost of his Power, do every Thing contributing to the good thereof, and faithfully lay open, in order to prevent all Plots and Conspiracies against the said Ship or Crew.

This was the Substance of the Oath, and thirteen Men, which was the

whole Ships Crew swore it, four at a Time, while the Captain stood, holding the naked Cutlash pointed to the Black's Breast; and the Black holding the Cock'd Pistol directed towards the Men, and saving, Swear, Swear Lads, Sign, Sign, Brave Boys, else he swore, I'll obey Orders. Then the Pirate Captain said, I will not force the Captain into the Service, but I'll let you go free Sir; but he added another Chain of dreadfull Oaths, If you don't advertise all these thirteen Men, as forc'd into our Service, and that they sign'd the Articles against their Will, at the first Port or Island you come to; if ever I meet with you again, I'll cut you into small Collops.

They sent some of their Men on board the Ship they had taken, but the new Adventures they kept on board the Good Fortune. Hallam staid only eleven Days with them, for he, with one of his Ship-mates, pretending to go for something in a Boat, with Difficulty made their Escape, and went to Martinico , where the French took them up, and would have hang'd them for Pirates, had not their late Captain by Providence been there, who declar'd upon Oath, That they were two of his Men, who were all compell'd into the Pirates Service: Upon which they were both set at Liberty.

He told also, that he had been taken three other Times by the Pirates, but had always the good Fortune to escape from them; and that there was no Man, of his Age, who had oftner shunn'd imminent Dangers his Life had been in. Reflecting on this he sadly lamented his unhappy Fate, after he was so well settl'd at home.

The Account he gave of the Murther was, that he went out with Company the Day before the Death of his Wife, and coming home pretty late at Night, he went directly to Bed, but his Wife sate on the Bed-side, turning her Garter in her Hand, and not like to come to Bed, he desir'd her several times to lie down; she would not, but at length run to the Door, and down Stairs; he jump'd out of Bed, and over took her at the Street Door, as she was going out; took her by the Neck of her Gown, and forc'd her back into the House, and then he gave her two or three hearty Blows; upon this, while he was locking the Street Door, she run up Stairs and shut the Chamber Door with the Poker, or some such thing; he having the Candle in his Hand, and being in his Shirt, desir'd her to let him in, otherwise he threaten'd to beat her with his Cane, but it was hanging on a Nail in the Bed-chamber, where she was; then he endeavour'd to open the Door by Force, which at last he did, and as he was coming in at the Door, she threw herself out at the Window backwards; I ask'd him, How her Hand came to be so wounded? He said, That dropping down by the Hands, it had been hurt upon the Iron Hook which keeps the Window open, and that she had fallen down upon her

Feet, but being big with Child, and near her Time, the Fall had kill'd the Child and her both: He run down immediately and said she was not dead then, but went up Stairs with his Help, and spoke to him some Hours after that.

He reflected always on a Woman, who declar'd several things contrary to this, that she had no Good-will to him.

As to the Evidence of two Men, who were Strangers, and accidentally passing by, who swore, that the woman cried out. Murther, for God's Sake! for Christ's Sake! for our Family's! for our Children's Sake! don't murder me Robin; don't cast me out of the Window, &c. He could make no Account of it, only he said, He heard no such Expressions, and the Fright she was in, for fear of his beating her unmercifully, was the Occasion of her crying out Murther, &c. and then throwing herself out at the Window; but that he did not strike her that Night, excepting two or three hearty Blows; after his dragging her in, when she first went out at the Street Door.

I insisted that it was a very clear circumstantial Proof against him, they having declar'd, that they saw a Man in the Room, when she went out of the Window, &c. and he own'd that there was no other Man in the House but himself. He said, He could not help it, but the Matter was Fact as he told it. I told him that it was of no avail to deny the Murther, and I urg'd the Necessity and Expediency of Confession, from a great many Reasons taken from Scripture and Reason, &c. but he persisted Inflexible.

On Friday Morning, the 11th Inst. his ancient Father came to Visit him, he fell on his Knees, Wept and Cried most bitterly, and insisted on his Innocency, at least of heaving his Wife out at the Window, but that he was too severe and hard upon her otherwise, in Swearing at her, threatening and frightening her out of her Wits and to Death, and beating her in a barbarous, cruel and outragious Manner, he could not deny.

He gave a Paper consisting of Prayers, Vows and Protestations to Almighty God and Our Saviour Christ, mostly taken out of Scripture; and a very devout and frequent Prayer for his Children, for whom he always showed a very tender and affectionate Care, as his chief concern upon Earth. This Writing of his is as follows,

A PRAYER, with my Faith in JESUS CHRIST.

O Merciful Saviour, who hast taken our mortal Nature, that thou mightest offer it up as a Sacrifice to God; vouch safe me thine Assistance and an Increase of my Faith and Hope, now that I am threatned to be devoured by Death, I embrace thy Cross and Passion as mine only Relief; I take hold of the Horns of this Altar and claim an Interest in thy

Sufferings and Righteousness; how grieveous were thy Torments, O! Blessed Redeemer, which made the sweet Drops of Blood, required the Comfort of Angels, and drew from the Strong, Crying and Tears; but thy Death was not as mine, or as the Departure of thine holy Martyrs, who went willingly to Execution with Expressions of Joy; thy Death was an Atonement for the Sins of the whole World, but ours can yield no Satisfaction to the Divine Justice, it makes us capable of keeping the Fruits of thine eternal Compassions and Mediation; thou sufferest the heavy Strokes of Gods Wrath, and tookest upon thee, the Load of our Sins; but we instead of this consuming Fire quenched by thy precious Death, perceive in our Death the Flames and Motions of Love; instead of the Hand of thy Vengance, we meet here with the Embraces of thy Mercy, ready to admit us into eternal Happiness; Death appears to us armed with our Sins, and the dreadful Consequences of Hell and Damnation: But I see all this Armour hanging upon the Cross, as the everlasting Trophies and Monuments of thy Glory; thou hast been pierced with the Darts of a cruel Death, suffered the terrible Thunderbolts and Curses of the Law, and thou hast drank the Dregs of the Cup of God's Fury for our Sakes. That thou mightest Conquer, Sin, Death and Satan, And free us from the Curses we had diserved. O! wonderful Saviour, thou hast spoyled Principalities and Powers, shewing them openly and triumphing over them in the Cross: How Marvellous are thy Works, and worthy of the continual Admiration of Man and Angels; what extraordinary Benefits do I reap from thy Blessed Passion, thy violent Sufferings are Preventions of my Torments, thy Bruises and Wounds are my Safety and Cure, thy Fears comfort and settle my Mind, thy distressed Soul fills mine full of Joy, thy Crying appeases the Troubles of my Conscience, and thy Drops of Blood wash away my Tears, thy Bitterness is my Sweetness, and thy Death my Victory, and thy Cross my Triumph. I shall no longer tremble at the Approaches of Death, since thou hast purchased for me Life and Immortality, and the Kingdom of Heaven is thine by a two-fold Right, as thou art the Son of God, and Heir of all Things, and as thou hast paid for us a valuable Price by thine infinite Merits. The first is sufficient for ye, by the second we have a Claim to this Kingdom, and shall possess it as the Fruits of thy Death and Sufferings, my hope is in thee, O blessed Lord, suffer me not to fail in my Expectations. I know that nothing impure shall enter into thine Holy City, but thy Blood shall wash and cleanse me from all my Sins. O glorious Lord how wonderful art thou, and how precious is thy Death, the Atonement of my Crimes, and the Ransome of the whole World, it's our Peace with God, our Reconciliation with Heaven, and with the Angels of Light. In a word, it hath not only rescued me out of the Abyss of Misery, from eternal Damnation and the endless Torments of Hell; but it hath purchased for me Heaven and its Glory, and Paradise with all its unspeakable Delights and the Method thou hast taken, O Victorious Son of David,

to accomplish this deserves our Admiration, by thine own Death its mortal Wound is given, thy Cross therefore is to me as Jacob's Ladder, where at the Bottom I may Sleep secure from Sin, and the Fears of the Grave, and by it ascend up to the Throne of Grace, to obtain Mercy and Help in time of Need: 'Tis the source of Sweetness, Comfort and Joy, and of the Noblest and future Expectations, 'tis a perfect Example to Instruct me how to Die well, and how I ought to be prepared when I leave the World: Grant me Grace to imitate thee, to express to all my Relations that Cordial Affection and Tenderness which I find in thee; to forgive my greatest and mortal Enemies, to pray for my Persecutors, to submit with Patience to thy Will, to behave my self with Courage and Resolution, with Zeal and Affection. For thy Glory here I offer my self to thy Disposal, my Soul belongs to thee as to its Creator and Redeemer, for thou hast ransomed it, washed and sanctify'd it, clothed it with thy Righteousness, and put it into a Capacity of entring into thine heavenly Sanctuary, and of appearing before thee. O! Father of Lights, take it into thy Custody, O! sweet Jesus who hast been Crucified for Me a wretched Sinner: Grant and beseech thee, that I may for ever live and reign with thee in Glory, in thine eternal Kingdom,

Amen.

O! God forgive the Men that passing by,

Said in my Room, they me did see:

For they have sworn a gross Mistake,

For which I suffer Patiently.

A PRAYER for my Dear Children.

O Merciful and Almighty God, Vouchsafe unto these my Dear Children thy Blessing, O Lord I shall not say unto thee as Esau did to Israel, when he had blessed Jacob; my Father, hast thou but one Blessing, for I am certain that thou hast an infinite Number, and many inexhaustible Fountains of all manner of Blessings, but I beseech thee with all the Zeal and Earnestness that I am capable of, to bless my Dear Children with thy heavenly and principle Favours, take them into thy Protection, bear them in thy Hands, embrace them with tender Compassion, and let them be as dear to thee as the Apple of thine Eye I am now leaving the World without Grief, or mistrusting thy Care of them; I am ascending with Joy up to thee before my Time, being falsly accused to thee who art my God, my Father and their Father: And I trust in thy great and eternal Mercies, that one Day we shall see one another in thine heavenly Kingdom, when we shall be admitted to behold thy Face, which shall fill us with unspeakable gladness and pleasure O Lord.

Amen.

O! Lord have Mercy on my Soul,

Which from my Body's Flying;

Now for my Death, the Bell doth Toll,

And so to Christ I'm hastening.

Part of the cxix. PSALM.

My Soul hath longed for thy Salvation, and I have a good Hope because of thy Word. Mine Eyes long sore for thy Word, Saying, O when wilt thou Comfort me? for I am become like a Bottle in the Smoak, yet do I not forget thy Statutes. How many are the Days of thy Servant, when wilt thou be avenged of them that persecute me. The Proud have digged Pits for me which are not after thy Law. All thy Commandments are true, they persecute me falsly, O, be thou my Help. They had almost made an End of me upon Earth, but I forsook not thy Commandments, O quicken me after thy loving Kindness, and so shall I keep the Testimonies of thy Mouth, O Lord.

Amen.

In Paradice I hope to Rest,

And there Christ for to see:

A long with Angels that are blest,

O Lord I trust in thee.

He appeared to be a discreet, sensible, knowing and civil Man; but the great Misfortune both of him and his Wife was, that domestick Discords and Differences, and mutual Jealousies of one another, brought Ruin and Destruction upon them both; altho' both of them bore a fair Character of all the Neighbourhood and their particular Acquaintances. He seemed to have been of a hasty passionate Temper, but as his Friends declared, never quarrelsome or impertinent in Conversation, but obliging to every Body; and he was respected by his Equals, and often honour'd with the Company of Men in a superiour Station to himself. Yet, when he came home, he was too often very uneasy and barbarous in his Carriage to his Wife; altho' he declared to me and others, that he lov'd her to the last above all Women, and that he never intended to murder her; though he did not say, but he might have used some rash and unguarded Expressions, without any Design. No perswasions or Arguments, which occurred to me, could make him alter in his Confessions, or Way of Speaking on that Subject.

As we have been told, he at several Times shed Tears, but whether thro' Fear of Death, or in Evidence of a sincere Repentance, we cannot possibly determine; for at other Times he did not appear so much affected, as one would wish. He oftentimes made Declarations to numerous crowds of people in the Chappel, and to his Acquaintances, Friends and others, upon every Occasion; but how to judge on these his solemn Protestations, we know not. He declar'd himself penitent for all the Offences of his Life; that he hop'd to be sav'd, by the Mercy of God, thro' the Merits of Christ our Blessed Saviour; and that he heartily forgave all Injuries done him, as he expected Forgiveness from Almighty God.

2. George Scroggs , of Tottenham , was indicted for Assaulting Charles Bellinger , Clerk , in an open Place, near the

Highway, putting in Fear, and taking from him a Gold Ring with a Cornelian Seal, value 10 s. a silk Purse, value 1 d. and 3 s. and 6 d. in Money, on the 14th of February last.

George Scroggs , 22 Years of Age, born at Edmonton , of honest Parents. His Father was a Farmer, and put him Apprentice to a Bricklayer near Shoe-Lane , with whom he serv'd Part of his Time; but being viciously disposed, and falling into the Company of Black-Guards and naughty People, he soon turn'd good for nothing, and disoblig'd his Master, neglected his Business, absented from his house, and could not be managed; so that at last his Master was glad to quit of him, since he would apply himself to no Business, having join'd in Company to Whores, Thieves, Pick-pockets, and the vilest sort of People he could meet with, who minded nothing but drinking, pilfering, and thieving, and other unlawful means to support their Prodigality, and maintain them in that Excess of Riot, to which they were wholly addicted. Having thus got loose from under the Authority of his aster, who kept him in some Awe, he next thought of obtaining a proper Companion of his own Disposition, with whom he might communicate his Counsels, and who was to be Partaker of his Purchase and laudible Labours; and for this Purpose he took to him a Lady of the Town, who passed for his Wife: But having married themselves, and he having been an idle, slovenly, wickedly inclin'd, and vicious young Fellow, and not willing to work for his Bread, The Question then was, What should be done for their Maintainance? He not willing to apply himself to any industrious or lawful means, resolved upon thieving and stealing, and going on the Highway. He had not been long at this Way of Business, before he was taken up for attacking a Gentleman in Enfield Chace , with an Intent to rob him in February 1731, for which he was committed to Newgate , and there detain'd, in order to be punish'd; but boasting among his Fellow-Prisoners of the Feats he had done, one of them (as they say) was so kind as to write a Letter to the Prosecutor to come and see the Fellow, who in the Prison had own'd that he robb'd him in February last. When he saw him, at the first View he knew his Face, which freed him from a lesser Punishment, and brought him to his deserved Fate, for the notorious and villainous Crimes he had committed. I ask'd him if he had been long in that profligate Way? to which he answer'd, No. I then asked him, how many Highway Robberies he had committed; he answered four. He own'd also, that it was the Company of bad Women, and wicked ignorant and profane persons, who minded nothing but Drinking and other Debaucheries, who had brought him to the Gallows.

As to the particular Fact for which he was convicted, he could not deny that he assaulted the Gentleman on Sunday Morning the 14th of February last, and that he took the Things mention'd in the Indictment, as was sworn

against him; but he made general Reflections on the Prosecuror, without specifying Particulars; only he alledg'd that he had been pointed out to him by another Person. I told him, it was most unjust to suppose that a Minister of God's Word would swear an Untruth, especially when a Man's Life waa at Stake: I bid him rather read his Sin in his Punishment and to acknowledge that he suffer'd most deservedly for violating the Lord's Day in so profane and atheistical a manner, as to have the Impudence to attack a sacred Person when he was going to Church to worship God, where it was his duty to have been, and whether all virtuously disposed People reckon it their honour to go and to join in prayers and praises to Almighty God.

He was a Fellow mightily inclin'd to Lying; for when I examin'd him, after the Dead Warrant came out he deny'd every thing he had confess'd before, having (it seems) got his Lesson from some of his graceless Companions, to make no Confessions. I told him the danger of going to Eternity with a Lie in his mouth; for how could he answer to God, who is the God of Truth, and who abhors Lying, which is the Devil's Sin, and who is the Father of Lies: but I could get no Answer from him. I also insisted much upon his confessing his Sins to man, since he could not otherwise die in the peace of the Church, who has power to pronounce a conditional Absolution; and since he had done Injury to man, it was most proper to acknowledge his Sins, which was all the Satisfaction he could give, for the Violences he had committed; but all I could or did say availed not, for he still continued obstinate and obdurate, and would confess nothing.

Although his Parents had given him good Education at School, in Reading, Writing and Accompts to fit him for Business, and instructed him in christian Principles, yet he had so inur'd himself to vicious Habits of drinking, whoring, picking, thieving, stealing, robbing and idleness, which is the Mother of all Vice, that good principles were almost wholly obliterated in him and he was grosly ignorant of Christianity. I us'd all means to instruct him, but the Time being short, it may be fear'd, not to very great Purpose. He made regular Responses, and sate quiet in Chappel; but seem'd to be very stupid, hard-hearted, indifferent and unconcerned. He said, that he believ'd in Christ, repented of his Sins and forgave all Men. In his villainous Actions he said, he never joyn'd himself to any Gang of Thieves, but provided a Pistol and went out upon his wretched Adventures alone. He was the most obstinate, sottish and unreasonable young Fellow I have seen.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

BOth of them appear'd grave, and very much affected with their deplorable Circumstances. Scroggs wept like one in a Fright; but Robert Hallam shew'd a great deal of Resolution and undaunted Courage in his Carriage. They were very desirous of, and attentive to Prayers: And when proper Prayers were near a Conclusion, Mr. Hallam desir'd earnestly, as the last Favour to be granted him upon Earth, that the Blessed Sacrament might be administer'd to him; which was accordingly done, and both of them receiv'd apparently with great Seriousness and Devotion. They had no more to add to their former Confessions, only Scroggs said, he had been a great Sinner, but heartily repenting, he cried to God for Mercy which he hop'd to obtain thro' the Merits of Christ.

I ask'd Mr. Hallam, if it was true that he, with some others, had murder'd the Mate of a Ship, upon, or some way nigh to the River, and thrown him into the Sea, and carry'd off 100 l. which they knew he had about him? He said, it was a most scandalous and false Report, if any Person spoke so of him for he never was concern'd in any Murther. They both forgave all Injuries, and died in perfect Peace with all Mankind. When Prayers were over, and they ready to be drawn away, Mr. Hallam look'd to the Coach where I, with some others was, and smileing, said, (meaning the Evidences) the Lord forgive them, they know not what they have done. They went off, the Stage, crying out, Lord have Mercy upon us; Lord Jesus receive my Spirit; God have Mercy upon us, &c.

ROBERT HALLAM deliver'd the following Paper, the Morning of his Execution, (which he design'd to have spoke at the Tree) and is inserted at his particular Request.

Good People,

CUstom making it necessary, for Persons in my deplorable Condition, to say something at the Place where they are appointed to suffer, that their Death may contribute more towards moving others Repentance, and thereby make the greater Satisfaction for those Crimes, by which they have injured Society, and offended God. I therefore to comply with it, and fully to unburthen a Conscience, oppressed with the remembrance of my Sins, by an open Confession, as I hope I have already attoned for them, by a sincere Penitence, declare in the Presence of you,

good People, and of that Almighty Being, before whose Judgment Seat I am instantly to appear, that I neither threw my deceased Wife out of the Window, nor was so much as in the Room when she threw herself out. I speak this merely out of Respect to Truth, and with no Design to make Reflections upon any. The God of Verity, who knoweth the Secrets of all Hearts, and from whom the Certainty of nothing can be hidden, knoweth that I was not the immediate Instrument of her dreadful End, yet do I acknowledge the Justice of his Providence, who for many great Sins, hath appointed me unto this ignominious Death, to which as to the Judgment of my Country, I willingly submit.

And as my Sins and Trangressions are so great, that they need not be heightened, and so numerous, that they ought not to be multiplied unto the World, after my Decease. I judge it proper, as a Dying Man, to inform ye, Good People, that I lived till within a Year of her Decease, in the greatest Quiet and Affection with my Wife, but in that Interval, I confess, there hath been many Quarrels and much Animosity between us. However, as I am to die for the Consequences of them, I hope ye will speak Charitably of me after my Decease, and not add, as is too often the Custom, the Imputation of Crimes to him, whose Guilt is already but too great.

Lastly, I entreat all Christians, that they would not reflect on those poor Orphans, I leave behind me, for my Sake, or that of their deceased Mother: It will be Affliction enough to those unhappy Infants, to remember, as they grow up, the dreadfull End which hath happen'd unto their Parents; and I humbly entreat God it may imprint on their Hearts, a serious Apprehension of doing any thing against his Laws. As they cannot be thought in any Degree answerable for my Actions, so I hope my dying Desire being added to the Dictates of every Man's Reason, will preserve them from any Reproach of this Sort. Finally, I freely, and from my Heart, forgive those who have injured me in any Manner whatsoever, especially those who have reflected too severely on me for that, for which I die, entreating God also to pardon the Intemperance of their Tongues, who have sought to add to my Sorrows, and to increase the Weight of my Afflictions.

For you Good People, I humbly beseech your Intercession, to Almighty God, for my departing Soul, that the Greatness of his Mercy may supply the Imperfectness of my Repentance, the heavy Load of my Sufferings, efface the Guilt of my Crimes, and the Merits of my Saviour's Death (in which alone I trust) bring me to everlasting Life.

This is all the Account given by me,

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

ADVERTISEMENTS.

Monday next will be Publish'd,

A SERMON Preach'd in the Chapel of Newgate , upon the particular Desire of Robert Hallam under Sentence of Death, for the Murder of his Wife Jane , then being big with Child, upon Sunday the 6th of February, in the Forenoon, (the Text being chose by the Prisoner) by JAMES GUTHRIE , M. A. Ordinary and Chaplain of Newgate . Printed and Sold by John Applebee in Bolt-Court , Fleet-Street . Price Six-Pence.

ELectuarium Mirable; or the Admirable Electuary, which infallibly cures all Degrees and Symptoms of the Secret Disease, with more Ease, Speed, and Safety, than any Medicine yet published. Any old Running, &c. tho' of several Years standing, whether occasion'd by an Overstrain, Weakness of the Seminals or the Relicts of a former Infection, is certainly cured in a short Time, without a Minutes Confinement. Suspicion, or the Use of Astringents; being a Medicine so wonderfully pleasant and easie in its Operation, that the nicest Palate, or weakest Constitution may take it with Delight. Two Pots are generally sufficient to compleat Cure in most Cases, To be had (with Directions at large) holy of the Author, Dr. C A M, a graduate Physician, who has published it Thirty Years, and is constantly to be advised with at his House, at the Golden-Ball in Bow-Church-yard, Cheap side, at Half a Guinea the Pot.

N. B. Since nothing is more requisite, in the Cure of any Distemper, than for a Patient to have free access to his Physician; therefore beware of buying Medicines from Toy-shops, Book-sellers-shops, &c. the Authors of which are always conceal'd, and not to be Spoke with, on any Occasion: And tho' (by their specious Pretences) you are promised a cheap Cure, you'll certainly find it very Dear in the End.

Verbum sat sapienti.

See his Books lately publish'd, viz. His Rational and Useful Account of the Secret Disease. Price 1 s. His Practica Treatise; or Second Thoughts on the Consequences of the Venereal Disease. In Three Parts. viz. I. On the Simple Gonorrhaea Gleets and other Weaknesses, whether from Venereal Embraces Self-pollution, improperly call'd Onanism, or Natural Imbecility. II. On the Virulent Gonorrhaea, or Clap. III. On the Venereal Lues, or Grand Pox, &c. Price 2 s. His Essay on th Rheumatism and Gout. Price 6 d. His Discourse on Convulsions. Price 6 d. And his Vindication of the Practice of Salivating. Price 1 s. All sold by G. Strathan in Cornhil, E. Midwinter in St. Paul's Church-yard, and at the Author's House before-mentioned.

Dr. R. NELSON'S most sure, and long Experienc'd Anti-Venereal COMPOUND, or Never failing Electuary, the like of which is not to be met with,

For the true Cure of fresh CLAPS, (and all the lurking Relicks or Remains of old Ones) how virulent or obstinate soever they may be; for it immediately puts a stop to their Progress, and entirely and as it were, instantly ferrets out and carries off all the filthy poisonous Infection, wears away the various Symptoms, and by Degrees, cleanses off the Running, and heals and strengthens the Parts sensibly and firmly, without the too common Consequences of leaving either Foulness, Gleeting, or Weakness behind.

This it does in a way so regular and gentle, both by Stool and Urine, and with a Dose each Time, so small and pleasant, (the Quantity but of a Nutmeg) that the nicest Persons are as well surpriz'd as delighted with it, and the more, as it agrees with every ones Constitution, hinders no Business, nor gives the least Suspicion to the nearest Relation.

In a very small space of Time (living temperately it rids away a mild CLAP; and those more severe according to their several Degrees of Malignity.

There never was, or can be, in the whole Art of Physick contrived, any Medicine or Method, capable of performing the Cure more certainly, more safely, or more speedily, for it is so compleatly adapted to every Circumstance of the Infection, and so fully answers the several Intentions of Curing, that it is impossible it should once fail.

But no more need to be said of it, for it will recommend itself, insomuch that no Person will ever after seek for Cure himself, or advise his Friend to any other Remedy.

Price 5 s. the Tin Pot. Prepared only, by the Doctor as abovesaid, and left (sealed up with Directions) at

Mr. Isted's, a Bookseller, at the Golden Ball, between St. Dunstan's Church and Chancery Lane End in Fleet-street; where it may be had by any Messenger, on asking only for a 5 s. Pot of The COMPOUND.

