THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, and Dying Words, OF THE MALEFACTORS, Who were Executed at TYBURN, On MONDAY the 2d of July.

BEING THE FOURTH EXECUTION in the MAYORALTY OF THE Rt. Hon. MICAJAH PERRY , Esq ;

Number IV. For the said Year.

LONDON :

Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , near the Leg-Tavern , Fleet-street . M,DCC,XXXIX.

(Price SIX-PENCE.)

THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE, His ACCOUNT of the Behaviour, Confession, &c.

AT the King's Commission of Oyer and Terminer, and Jail-delivery of Newgate, held (before the Rt. Hon . Micajah Perry , Esq ; Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Hon. Mr. Justice Probyn; the Hon. Mr. Baron Thompson; the Hon Mr. Justice Fortescue; the Worshipful Mr. Serjeant Urlin, Deputy-Recorder of the City of London, and others his Majesty's Justices of Oyer and rminer for the City of London, and Justices of Jail-delivery of Newgate, holden for the said City and County of Middlesex) at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , on Thursday, Friday and Saturday, the 7th, 8th, and 9th of June, and in the Twelfth Year of his Majesty's Reign.

Five Men, viz. James Caldclough , Joseph Morris , William Carey , James Wint , and Jarvis Hare , a Boy, were by the Jury convicted capitally, and received Sentence of Death.

While under Sentence, they were exhorted from these Words, Verily every Man at his best State is altogether Vanity Psal. 39. 5 From which we show'd them that the Vanity of Man appears in many particulars, as 1st, From the two opposite States of Life he is commonly placed in, either of Prosperity or Adversity, in the last of which he is repining, discontented and uneasy, because he sees other Men in a State of Life superior to himself, and therefore envies their flourishing Condition: But in prosperous Estate, Men is too often puffed up with Pride and Loftiness, disdaining all the rest of the Inferior Part of Mankind, and looking down upon them as from an high Mountain with Scorn and Contempt. 2dly, The Vanity of Man appears from the uncertainty of his remaining here upon Earth, where we have no sure Habitation, being here to Day, and To-morrow we are carried off, and there is no more remembrance of us. 3dly. From the uncertainty of humane Fortune, which was illustrated from diverse Instances of sacred and prophane History. 4thly. From the

fatal Catastrophe and Overthrow of the greatest Men, who at any Time have been in the World, &c. From these Considerations, they were exhorted to Patience in Adversities, since Afflictions are appointed by God, to bring us to a due Sense of our Iniquity, that so we may come to a hatred of Sin and of our evil Ways, and draw near to God from whom we have so deeply revolted, who is always willing to embrace penitent Offenders, which like the thoughtful Prodigal, shall return unto him.

They were exhorted to prepare for Death, from these Words, And I heard a Voice from Heaven, saying unto me, write, blessed are the Dead which die in the Lord, from henceforth, Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their Labours, and their Works do follow them. Rev. 14. 13 The different Fate of those who die in the Lord, who are Godly in Christ Jesus, and of them who are Enemies to God, unacquainted with the Ways of the Lord, and who will not have Christ to rule over them; was insisted on the one being full of Terror, Confusion and Consternation, having nothing but an evil Conscience, an angry God, and a fearful waiting for of Judgment staring them in the Face, ready to take Vengeance upon them, for the abominable and attrocious Villainies of an ill spent Life, void of the fear of God, and any due regard to Man; whereas those who have liv'd in the fear of God, a Life of Faith and Dependance upon him, and as the Apostle expresseth it, For our rejoicing is this, the Testimony of our Conscience, that with Simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly Wisdom, but by the Grace of God, we have had our Conversation in the World, and more abundantly to you wards. 2 Cor. 1. 12. These who have thus approved themselves unto God, need not be afraid of Death, but they can hear their passing bell without Disturbance, the Voice thereof is no more to them, than the Voice of God to Moses, go up to Mount Nebo and dye there; no more, but, go up and dye; for now he feels the Approaches of that Salvation with Joy, which before he had wrought out with fear and trembling, as I have patiently waited for thy Salvation, so now hast thou made me partaker of thy Salvation, O Lord! and therefore, Glory be to God on High, Peace on Earth, and rood Will towards Men. Though they had no right to claim any Title to so great Blessings, yet I comforted them with the Promises of God's Mercy in Christ, who hath declared himself to be a God merciful and gracious, long suffering and patient, slw to anger, plentiful in redemption and mercy, no ways delighting in the Death of a Sinner, but who rather would that they should repent, be converted, and live, and that will by no means clear the Guilty. Exod. 34, 5, 6, 7.

Two of them, James Caldclough , and Joseph Morris , as they were convicted for a Highway Robbery, so they were in effect guilty of Murther, having left Mr. Swafford, one of the Persons they robb'd for dead, and who in all probability, would have died, had not George Banks , the other Person abus'd and robb'd by them at the same Time, returned, with

some other Person, and carried him into a publick House, where they sent for a Surgeon, who took proper Care of him: I advised them therefore to repent as Murtherers, the atrociousness of which Crime, the most heinous of all others, I fully exposed to them, as an Usurpation upon the Prerogative of Almighty God, who is the soveraign Lord of the Life and Death of his Creatures, a Sin for which no Reparation can possibly by made, and which, before the Law of God was promulgated by Moses, God himself commanded to be punished by the Hand of Man, Whoso sheddeth Man's Blood, by Man shall his Blood be shed; for in the Image of God made he Man. Gen. 9, 5, &c.

All of them were admonished of the Nature of their Offences, that Theft and Robbery is destructive of all human Society and Conversation, and wherever Government is regularly established, in all Empires, Kingdoms and Commonwealths, punishable with the highest Penalties.

In order to prepare them for the Sacrament, they were informed of what the Apostle says, But let a Man examine himself, and so let him eat of that Bread and drink of that Cup, 1 Cor. 11 28. Upon this they were told, that the special Business we have to do in this Sacrament, is to repeat and renew that Covenant we make with God in our Baptism, which although we have in many Ways, and in many Instances grievously broken, yet it pleases God in his infinite Mercy to suffer us to come to the renewing of it in this Sacrament; which if we do in sincerity of Heart, he hath promised to accept us, and to give us all those Benefits in this, which he was ready to bestow in the other Sacrament, if we had not by our own Fault forfeited them. Since then this is the renewing our Covenant, it follows, that these three Things are necessary towards it, 1st. That we understand what the Covenant is, 2dly. That we consider what our Breeches of it have been, and 3dly. That we resolve upon a strict Observance of it, for the rest of our Life, &c.

While these and many like Exhortations were given, William Carey , James Wint , and Jarvis Hare , constantly attended in Chappel, Wint and Carey behaved well, and were attentive to Exhortations and Prayers; Carey always appear'd very serious, and penitent, and though sick and weak, he scarce ever absented from the publick Worship, and was miserably poor and destitute of every Thing. Jarvis Hare , was a witless, naked, childish Boy, and could not be brought to any due Sense of his Sin and Misery. The two Soldiers James Caldclough , and Joseph Morris , were most of the Time Sick and confined to the Cells; when I visited them, altho' it was not very safe to do it, because of the Heat and confin'd Air, they own'd themselves great Sinners and penitent.

Upon Thursday the 28th of June, Report was made to his Majesty in Council, of the five Malefactors lying under Sen

tence of Death in the Cells of Newgate, when James Wint for stealing two Men's Velvet Caps, value 8 s. a Child's ditto, value 5 s. two Velvet Hoods, value 12 s. and 26 striped Linnen Handkerchiefs, value 18 s. the Goods of John Malton , in his Dwelling-house, April 5; and Jarvis Hare a Boy 12 or 13 Years old, who had been three Times before tried for the like Crime at the Old-Bailey, for stealing a Grey Gelding, value 20 s. the Property of William Row , May 12, receiv'd his Majesty's most gracious Reprieve; the remaining three, viz. James Caldclough , Joseph Morris , and William Carey , were order'd for Execution.

James Caldclough , and Joseph Morris , were indicted for assaulting Josias Swaford and George Banks , on the King's Highway, putting them in Fear, &c. and taking from the said Swafford a Hat, value 2 s 2 Guineas, and 5 s. in Money; and from the said Banks five Guineas, and 13 s. in Money, April 9.

1. James Caldclough , about 23 or 24 Years of Age, born at Durham , of honest Parents, who would have given him good Education at School, but he was of so reprobate and ungovernable a Temper, that he soon forgot the little he learn'd in his Childhood and Youth, and could neither Read nor Write. When of Age he was put out Apprentice to a Shoemaker in Durham , but was so inclined to Idleness and rambling, that he only serv'd a Part of his Time, and being of a pretty good growth, about five Years ago, he inlisted himself for a Soldier in Colonel Folliard's Company, of the second Regiment of Guards, where he serv'd till taken up for the Robbery and Felony, which brought him to his fatal and disgraceful End. He was a Youth of very vicious Dispositions, so that he and his Brothers reduc'd his Father, (who was a Maltster in good Credit to very low Circumstances, and the keeping a little Ale-house. The unhappy Convict whilst here in Town, kept the worst of Company both Men and Women, the former were a Gang of the most notorious Thieves, Street-Robbers, Highwaymen, and House-breakers, could any where be found; and of the latter among many others, who as may be presum'd, had no Advice or Example to give him, there was one whom he call'd his Wife, but she never came to see him under his Confinement, her he did not blame for any of his Misfortunes, neither commending nor dispraising her. He was a Man altogether negligent and void of Religion, of which he could give very little or no Account, having scarce ever gone to any Church, or Place of publick Worship, never thinking upon the Sacraments, or any other Seals or means of Grace. He sometimes wrought at the Shoemakers Business, at which he was so unexpert, not having applied himself to his Trade when an Apprentice, that he could only stitch and do some little Things; he at first deny'd the assaulting and robbing Josias Swafford and George Banks on the Highway, as was sworn against him, altho' this he died

for, and Banks swore to his Face, having known him before; yet falling sick, and not able to attend in Chapel, as I visited him on Monday the 18th of June, in the Cell, he own'd the Justice of his Sentence, and that all in general was true as was sworn against him, sincerely begging Pardon of God and Man for his great Transgressions. I exhorted him in God's Name to repent, not only as a Robber, but a Murderer, having left, Mr. Swafford for dead upon the Highway, welt'ring in his own Blood, so that if speedy Relief had not come, he had died in his Wounds, not being able to rise, or any ways help himself. At this Time he was a little out of his Senses, and spoke some Things incoherently, but as to his Confession he spoke it very distinctly, and with a great deal of Grief and Concern. As to particular Confessions he was very unwilling to make any, saying he had confessed his Sins to God, and would do no more, and whatever could be alledg'd to convince him was of no Effect, since he was either incapable or unwilling to listen thereto; he blessed me for giving him good Advices, and praying for him, and declar'd that he beliv'd in Christ, repented of his Sins, and was in Peace with all Men.

2. Joseph Morris , convicted for the same Robbery with the above Caldclough, 27 Years of Age, of honest Parents in the Country not far from Town, had indifferent good Education at School, where he learn'd to Read, Write, and cast Accompts, in order to qualify him for Business, and was instructed in the Principles of Religion; some Friend or Acquaintance bound him to a Sadler in Holborn , were he serv'd most of his Time honestly, and with Approbation, till falling into an Intrigue with a Woman, to screen himself from Prosecution, one Day when his Master sent him out to receive some Money, he inlisted himself for a Soldier in the same Company with his Fellow-Sufferer Caldclough, and the Evidence against them both William Robinson , which three it seems, contracted too strict a Familiarity afterwards, and became Brothers in Iniquity. After Morris had enter'd himself for a Soldier, he immediately return'd to his Master and told him what he had done, with the Cause of it, and faithfully deliver'd him the Money he had been receiving; he was very sick and weakly, and seldom came to Chapel, but when he came was very attentive and devout; he work'd frequently at his Trade with his old Master to whom he was Apprentice, and sometimes with others, wanting for nothing if he could have been contented; he marry'd a Woman who bore him three or four Children, and who came to visit him during his Confinement, but there had been such Differences between them, that by no Means he would allow her to come in his Presence to speak to him, but another young Woman with whom he cohabited last brought him Necessaries, and he seem'd desirous of her Company; she al

so had a Child by him, but all the rest of his Children were dead; he also at first deny'd the Fact for which they died, but this he only did faintly, alledging some trivial Excuses, or pretended Inconsistencies in the Proof, as his Companion also did; but afterwards growing so sick, that he was confin'd to the Cells, when I visited him on Monday the 18th of June, he confessed the Fact on the same Day and Time when Caldclough also own'd the same, I asked him if he acknowledg'd the Justice of his Sentence? He answer'd yes, he did; I exaggerated the Crime, what an unmanly, cowardly, and barbarous Thing it was for him and Caldclough to draw their broad Swords, and slash and cut a naked, unarmed Man, without any previous Quarrel, and that therefore considering this with the other gross Irregularities of his Life, whatever Judgments and Misfortunes had befallen him, if a hundred times more, they were most justly inflicted upon him; he confessed that his Sins were very great, that his Mind and Conscience were grievously oppressed, and he cry'd most vehemently and ardently to God to have Mercy on him the chief of Sinners. I also advised him to repent of the Sin of deserting his true Wife, and living with another Woman, this he deny'd, tho' the Truth thereof was well known, since they had both frequently call'd upon him as their Husband; he acknowledg'd himself to have been a very great Sinner in divers Respects, that he kept the worst of Company, having associated with the most notorious Thieves and Highwaymen about the Town, as well as accompanied with many of the vilest Prostitutes who walked the Streets, which most abandon'd Company of Men and Women, could not fail of suddenly precipitating him into Disgrace and Misery. As to the Robbery for which they died, he and Caldclough own'd, as is herein after related. He confessed that he had committed a great many other Robberies, tho' he could not be induc'd to tell Particulars; he was not so oburate, but a little more easy in his Disposition than Caldclough. He hop'd for the Mercy of God through Christ, declar'd himself griev'd for the heinous Offences of his Life, and that he died in Peace with all Mankind.

William Carey was indicted for stealing a Gold Watch, with an outside Case made of Silver, value 6 l. two Gold Pendants for Watches, value 12 s. two pair of Crystal Buttons set in Gold, value 10 s. two Guineas, and 4 s. in Money, a Gold Ring set with 8 Stones, value 18 s a silver Watch Chain, value 12 d. a pair of Cloth Breeches, value 12 d. Goods of William Elliot , and a brown silk Camblet Coat, value 10 s. a Scarlet Le-Pell Waistcoat, value 4 s. a pair of brown Silk Camblet Breeches, value 12 d. and a pair of Serge ditto, value 12 d. the Goods of George Goodman , in the Dwelling-house of George Lumley , January 12.

3. William Carey , 36 Years of Age, born of honest Parents in the County of

Wicklow in the Kingdom of Ireland, not far from the City of Dublin , had good Education at School, to Read, Write, and cast Accompts for Business, and was instructed in Christian Principles, agreeable to the Church of England. When of Age he was not put to any Trade, but did Country Work with his Father, who was a Farmer, and liv'd well in that Way: The Father dying, he plied his Father's Business, who left him enough to cultivate the Farm, and marry'd a young Woman of the Country, who was of good Parents, and had some Fortune with her, with which and what he had of his own, they might have done very well; but being young and unexperienc'd took not due Care in the Management of Affairs, which made every Thing go wrong with them, and he loving the Sea left his own Home, and went some short Voyages along the Coast, and having but little to look too at Home, most of what he had being squandered away, he left his own Country and came to London , where having before had some Knowledge of the Sea upon the Irish Coast, and some short Voyages, he went as a Sailor on Board an India Man, about 7 or 18 Years ago, and has been several Voyages to China and the Indies ; he had also been at Gibralter , up the Streights, upon the Coast of Guinea , in the Northern Plantations of America , the West-Indies , and most Part of the known World. In his last Voyage he had the Misfortune to be one of the Crew of the Sussex I did Man, which the Captain, Officers and Soldiers left not far from the Coast of Madegascar , only 16 or 17 of the Sailors remain'd on Board the Ship, alledging by the help of God they would bring her safe Home to England, all who left the Ship came Home with another India Man, who happen'd to be passing by, this was done the last Year when the India Fleet came Home, and now some of them that came Home this Season gave out, that the said Sussex India Man is on her Way homeward with these 16 or 17 Men, But this is only an uncertain Report, which if true, will no doubt be greatly to the Advantage of the Adventurers. Caregot no Wages upon this unlucky Voyage, but has been ever since loitering about the Town, few Men caring to employ him. For 18 or 19 Years past was now and then travelling between London and Ireland to visit his Wife and Children, for his Wife is now living in the same County of Wicklow, nigh the Place of his Nativity, with a Child or two; and during that Time he had been four Times in China , or the East-Indies . During all these Voyages and some others, as he represented the Matter, he was always honest, and of an unblemish'd Character in his Dealings between Man and Man. As to the Robbery for which he died, he did not deny the Fact.

He was very sick and weak all the Time, yet he constantly came to Chapel, excepting two or three Times, and behav'd decently, Christianly, and with

great Devotion both at Prayers and Exhortations, professing himself sincerely penitent for all the Sins of his Life, especially the Crime he died for; he had no Friends or Acquaintance to visit him, only a Gentleman or two came once or twice to see him, and gave him a little Money, he was miserably poor, and destitute of every Thing, and to appearance was a contrite Penitent; he talked of having given some Gold Dust to Mr. Elliot, but asking him whence he had it, he could make no Answer. He declar'd his Hope of Salvation by the Mercy of God, thro' the Merits of Jesus Christ, that he sincerely repented of all his Sins, and heartily forgave all Men.

At the Place of EXECUTION.

THEY were carry'd to the Place of Execution between eight and nine o'Clock in the Morning, and before they went out they all receiv'd the Holy Communion, behaving christianly, and in a becoming Manner. They were all three carried in one Cart, Morris and Caldclough adhered to their former Confessions, and earnestly desir'd all Young People to take Example, and beware of such wicked Courses as had ruined them, which if not forsaken, would inevitably bring them to the same fatal Calamity with themselves.

William Carey said much to the same Purpose, that he had no more to add, only his Sentence was just, and he forgave every Body.

This is all the Account given by me

JAMES GUTHRIE ,

Ordinary of Newgate .

APPENDIX.

The following is an Account of the Robberies which were committed by JAMES CALDCLOUGH , and others (who have been Executed) which he gave some Days before he was taken ill.

HE was first introduced into the unhappy Company which has brought him very justly to an ignominious Death, by one R - d T - ns, who told him, if he would go with him, he could help him to a very good Dinner. This was on a Sunday, about three or four Years ago: The new Comrade was introduced to the rest of the Gang, and dined upon a Quarter of Lamb, two Fowls, and a Goose; T - ns had informed them that the young Man was provided with Arms, which the Company at that Time much wanted, and for that reason they were very glad of the Assistance of their new Pupil.

After Dinner they agreed to take a Walk out in the Fields towards Newington; two of them went into an Alehouse in Newington Road , while the others went to Mother Redcap's, pretending Business there. In the Evening they returned, and joined Company together: When they came to the Sign of the Cock at Shackle-well Road, one of them told the new Scholar, that he must stay a little behind with two of their Companions, who would bring him to them again at the End of Hoxton. When it began to be duskish, they carried him into the first Field between Newington and Hoxton , where he saw the rest of the Company. In passing that Field, they met two Gentlemen and a little Boy, whom they ordered to stop, and immediately presented a Pistol at one of the Gentlemen, and another attack'd the other with another Pistol; the Booty was only one Watch, for they neither of them had any Money. No one else was attacked that Night, but went dirctly to a Publick House in Brick-Lane , where they sat up drinking all that Night.

Their young Companion having brought in his Arms for the Use of the Society, they imagined they could make better of their Business if they followed it on Horseback; but wanting Horses, they resolved to look out for some. To this end, three of them were dispatched to see if they could provide themselves in Kent; near Canterbury they took two fine Geldings, which they brought to London , and set up at an Inn near Moor-fields .

Some little Time after this, four of them went down to Welling in Hartfordshire , where they broke into a Barber's Shop, and took out eleven Whigs, value 14 l. two of which they lost in going to Enfield . Two of them rode the two stolen Horses, the other two walked after them, and found one of the Whigs upon Enfield Chase , which one of them had dropped in riding thither. When they got home, one of the Whigs was sold to a Relation of one of them, and the rest were divided by Lot among the Company.

The next Robbery was committed by four of them in Hackney Church-Fields , where they stopped a Gentleman, and took from him his Watch, a Guinea, and 6 or 7 Shillings in Silver. Then they went on, and robbed another of his Watch, three Half Crowns, and 18 d. after which they all went to the Publick House in Brick-Lane .

The next Fact was committed on Horseback, three of them hired three Horses at an Inn in Whitechapel , from whence they rode to Epping-Forest; where they stopped a Coach with two Gentlewomen and a little Miss in it. The Footman behind would have made Resistance, but one of them threatned him with his Pistol, and made him quiet; then they robbed the Coach of 13 Shillings, which was all the Money the Ladies had between them: They ordered their Men to be quiet, and told the Robbers, They attacked them in an unlucky Time, for they had but very little about them, which they should be welcome to, provided they would not use them uncivilly.

As they were returning home, they overtook the Woodford Stage-Coach making towards Lord Castlemain's, and it appearing full of People, they resolved to attack it, and thought it would be safest to do it on Foot; for this end they dismounted, but the Coachman observed them, and suspecting their Design, he turned with all the Speed he was able into the Town, and disappointed them. Then they mounted again, and made towards the Backside of Wanstead , where they overtook another Coach which they determined to rob, but were prevented by some Butchers, who were returned from Leaden hall-Market, and kept up all the Way with the Coach. This was on a Saturday Evening, and that Night some of their Company parted (for that Night) from the Publick House in St. John-street , Spittlefields .

The next Evening (Sunday) they visited the Road between Shoreditch and Tottenham High-Cross . The first Person they stopped were near the Watch-house by the Brick-Kiln, where from 3 Men they took three Guineas, eleven Shillings and a Watch. That Night they were all armed with Horse Pistols, each charged with three Slugs, though oftentimes they went without them, and had neither Powder nor Ball among them.

The same Evening they attacked a single Man, who told them he lived in Exchange-Alley and begged not to be ill used. They took from him a Guinea

and four Shillings in Silver, leaving him the Silver Buckles which were in his Shoes. Then between the Cock and the Warwick-Castle in Newington Road , they robb'd a Man of 9 s. and a little above Mother Redcap's they fell upon six Men and two Women, whom they so terrified with their Pistols, that they suffered themselves to be robbed of about 11 l.

At Stamford Hill they stopped a Man with a Basket of Pears; upon searching him they found but 18 d. which they returned him, and made him a Present of Half a Crown to put to it Near Tottenham they stopped a Man on Horseback, and took from him 9 s. and his Whip, because it was an extraordinary good one; and before they got to the Blackmoor's-Head, they took 3 s. from two Men and a Waterman; then they returned to London , and lay at the Publick House in Brick-Lane that Night.

As soon as their Money was spent, they all resolved to go out again on Horseback; accordingly two Horses were hired at the Green-Dragon by Hick's-Hall , and three at the Dragon in Whitechapel . They agreed to ride to Finchley-Common , where they stopped the Barnet Coaches, but got very little from them. Then they overtook a Gentleman's Coach by Mr. Horton's House (the Brickmaker) and made the Coachman stop, but finding the Coach empty, they gave the Man a Shilling to drink, and bid him drive on. Having but little Success this Evening they returned home, and put up their Horses. But

The next Day they all went out again on the same Road, they stopped the Barnet Coaches again, and got no more than 18 d. and two Half Crowns from all the Passengers. In their return to London they stopped two Highgate Coaches, just below Whittington's Stone; from the first Coach they took 9 s. and a green Silk Purse, but the Passengers in the other had no Money that they could find.

From hence they came directly to London , and the Sunday Evening following, they all went on Foot into Hackney-Church-Fields , where they stopped a Gentleman who was very well dressed, and made a fine Appearance; he burst out into Tears, and wept plentifully, telling them, He was in more Distress than they were, having no more in the World than 18 d. to support Life. One of them had taken his 18 d. but the Company relented, and returned it to him, with Half a Crown more out of their own Stock. After this they met a short elderly Man and a Woman, and robbed them of a silver Watch and 14 s. which was all they got that Night.

Some few Nights after this, two of them were drinking at the Red-Lyon Alehouse in Aldersgate-street , each depended upon the others having Money to pay the Reckoning, but when they compared Notes, neither of them had a Farthing. Upon which they had immediate Recourse to their old Method of raising Money; for they called for another Bottle of Wine, and having often used the

House, they said they had five Minutes Business to do at a little Distance, and would return presently. They left their Wine in the Room and walked up towards Islington , where they met a Man who told them, he had but very little about him. They told him, they only came out for a little Money to pay a Reckoning, and at present a little Matter would serve their Occasion. The Man, when he found he was to be searched, roareout,-Murder! Thieves! Thieves! and made a great Resistance; however, they found he had a Watch, and as he made an Out-cry, they had only Time to take that, and run off; when they came to look at the Watch, they found it Gold, and one of them pledged it at a Publick House near S t. Paul's for two Guineas, then they returned to the Red-Lyon , and paid the Reckoning.

Now the Company began to disagree among themselves, for two of them having sold the two Horses stole from Canterbury, and sunk the Money, two of them determined for the future to rob together; another of them went down into the Country to his Friends, but not being able to stay in the Country without practising now and then, he wrote to one of them, and let him know, that if he would meet him on such a Day at the Red-Cow between Coney and St. Alban's , he would assist him in getting 30 or 40 l. He met him accordingly at the House appointed, where they both waited till the Warwick Pack-Horses came by: The Carrier suffered the Horses to travel on, while he staid to drink at the House; in the mean Time one of them went after the Pack-Horses, cut open a Truss, and took out a Bale of Silk and a Bundle of Linnen, which they secured for the present, and then returned to the Red-Cow , and drank with the Carrier whose Horses they had robbed.

While the Confederacy between these Villains subsisted, they were informed, that a Gentleman near Hartford was very rich, and had some Horses which would be useful to them. Upon this Information three of the Company were dispatch'd to see what they could get: They got into his Yard about 11 o'Clock at Night; the Gentleman heard them, and asked them from a Window, What Business they had there? They told him, Their Business was only to go through his Yard. He immediately fired a Gun with Powder only, upon which one of them was frighted out of his Wits, and ran off as fast as he could; the rest went round to the Study Window, where they apprehended the Money was kept; but the Gentleman was there as soon as they, and with his Servant kept such a constant firing from the Window, that they were obliged to make off after their other Companion, least the Noise might awaken the Servants at a Brickmaker's House, which was not very far from this House.

It is undoubtedly expected by the World at his going off the Stage, he should say something to the Fact which he suffer'd for. First, he desired the World, especially those that were Spectators

of his untimely End, to prevent the like Shame to themselves here, and that which is more to be feared, in the World to come; that they and every of them, by a speedy Repentance, would betake themselves to that strict and sober Course of Living, that admits of no manner of Exess: And that all whose Hands this may come to, would often remember, and lay it close home to their Thoughts, that the neglect of that great Duty, was the Bait made Use of by the common Enemy of Mankind, for his Destruction; being at the Time this barbarous Robbery was committed, so much in Drink, that he knew not what he said or did.

The Robbery which he died for, was committed as follows, viz.

He acknowledged it was done by Robinson the Evidence, Morris and himself, on the 9th of April last, about half an Hour after eight o'Clock. They had been drinking that Night at the suttling House at St. James's , and they talked about going to the Gore, and robbing the first Person they should meet. Accordingly they went through the middle Park, and along Kensington Road , till they came past the Halfway House. Then they looked back, and saw Mr. Swafford, and Mr. Banks coming up; they did not know either of them then, - but the Persons they saw, prove to be those Gentlemen. When they first discovered them, they were a pretty many Yards behind them; upon which they turn'd back and met Mr. Swafford first; Caldclough and Morris with their Swords drawn, and without saying a Word, both fell to cutting Mr. Swafford, 'till they had brought him to the Ground; one of them thrust his Hand into his Pocket, and took out two Half Crowns and some Half-pence, and then he said, I have got it! When they had robb'd him, Mr. Banks coming up, they attack'd him, and robb'd him of five Guineas and about thirteen or fourteen Shillings in Silver; when they had so done, Mr. Banks made off towards Kensington ; but meeting an Acquaintance, asked him if he had seen Mr. Swafford; upon which, his Friend replyed, he had seen nobody. Mr. Banks acquainted his Friend that he had been robb'd, and if he had not met Mr. Swafford, he was fear'd he was murder'd; upon which his Friend went with him to see for, where they both found him wallowing in his Blood, and very much cut, and his Nose hanging into his Mouth. After the Robbery was committed, Robinson, Caldclough and Moris, went directly over the Hedges into the Fields towards Chelsea , and when they got to Chelsea Horse Ferry , there they helped the Ferry-Man to pull up the Drag, and they crossed the Water to Lambeth , and under the Archbishop's Wall, they divided the Money. From Lambeth they came to Stangate , and there they crossed the Water again, and then parted, and every one of them went Home to their Lodgings.

P. S. To this Confession he subjoyn'd and follows, I humbly beg for the Lord's-Sake, that all you young Men that I leave here behind, that you will take Warning

in Time, and avoid those Houses and all ill Company, and remember my last dying Words, least some of you come to the same End, which I pray God you may not; for this that I suffer, is but the just Punishment of my Wickedness in this World, and I do declare to the Word, that I never was guilty of Murder in all my Life-Time: And I pray God that every body whom I have wronged (Mr. Banks, but more especially Mr. Swafford) will forgive me; for were I able to make Satisfaction, I should be very willing for to do it; but as I am not, I hope my Life will be Satisfaction to them all; and for whomsoever have wronged me, I do from the bottom of my Heart, forgive them and all the World, for what Injury any Man has done me. And I die in Charity with all the World, and the Lord Jesus receive my sinful Soul.

James Caldclough .

Cells in Newgate, June 12, 1739.

The following LETTER James Caldclough sent to his Father, whilst under Condemnation in the Cells of Newgate .

To Mr. PETER CALDCLOUGH , in Durham .

Honoured Father,

THE dismal Circumstances I am now under, put me under a Necessity of giving you this Trouble; but had I taken your Advice in Time, it would be happy for me. I am now under Sentence of Death in Newgate , for a Robbery committed along with one Joseph Morris , who was a Soldier in the same Company. It is in vain to deny the Fact to you, or plead Innocence, for there, were three of us together when the Robbery was committed, and one turned Evidence against me and Morris, and we are both now in the Cells of Newgate , and don't know when we shall die. Now I beg of you for God's Sake to make what Interest you can with Colonel -, and the rest of your Friends, to save my Life if possible, and get me off for Transportation: If you could get the Colonel to write up to my Lord -, I may, perhaps, be saved. Let me have an Answer as soon as possible, and let me know, whether you have any Hopes of saving me.

Dear Father, I must own I have followed bad Courses sometime, which I was brought to by lewd Women, as most young Men are, who come to an untimely End.

I shall not trouble you with any more untill I hear from you.

And am your most unhappy, Dying Son,

James Caldclough .

The under-written LETTER the abovesaid Prisoner sent to his Wife a little before his Execution.

Dear Molley ,

I Am sorry you were so ill, as not to be able to come to see me all this while; but one Misfortune or Affliction seldom comes alone. If you are any thing better before I die, I hope you'll come to see me, for I have something very particular to tell you.

I should die much easier in my Mind, if I was assured of your not being with Child, but I fear you are. Don't fail coming on Sunday Evening if possible, for we shall die on Monday next. I am now very weak, and have been so sick, that I could not go to Chapel for this Fortnight past.

My Dear, I think the Sight of you would revive me. I hope no body will reflect upon you for my unhappy Courses or shameful Death, for it would be a great Wrong, as you never knew my Intrigues. I beg you'll let me have the Satisfaction of seeing you before I die, and you'll oblige,

Your loving, tho' unhappy, Dying Husband, James Caldclough .

The following LETTER, the Prisoner, during his Confinement, got a Person to write for him.

Dear NANNY,

YOUR Absence gives me a vast deal of Uneasiness, to think I can't have the Happiness of seeing you now I am in this unhappy Condition; all the Friends in the World should not keep me away from you, which I believe you are very well assured of, for the seeing of you would enlighten my Heart as much as his Majesty's Reprieve; so I beg you will not shun coming because you have no Money, for I know Persons can't always get Money; so I beg if you have any Value for me, not to detain yourself from coming to me, which is all the Comfort I have in this careless World. Ball and Charles Cross is in the Cells, and desire to be remembered to you. Pray my Love to your Mother and to all Friends. I have no more at present, but my Prayers for your good Success, and these are my Prayers till Death.

The Cells, From your dying Friend, June 16, 1739.

James Caldclough .

The following Account WILLIAM CAREY gave of the several Robberies committed by him.

HE said, he and another was concerned in robbing a French Man of Quality in the Road to Hampstead , in a two-hors'd Chaise, with a Coachman on his Box, who was attacked in the Dusk of the Evening by us; we exchanged several Pistols (the French Gentleman behaving himself very gallantly) and continued the Fight till the Ammunition on both Sides being exhausted; the French Gentleman prepared to defend himself with his Sword, and we were almost out of all Hopes of obtaining our Booty; my Companion getting behind the Chaise, secretly cut a square Hole in its Back, and putting in both his Arms, seized the Frenchman so strongly about the Shoulders, that I had an Opportunity of closing in with him, disarming him of his Sword, rifling and taking from him between forty and fifty Pistoles; we not being satisfied with that, we ripp'd the Lace off his Cloaths, and likewise took from the Coachman all the Money he had about him.

Once as I was travelling in the West Country, in the Capacity of a Quack-Doctor, with a little Chest of Medicines, which I intended to dispose of in this Manner at Westchester , I happened to go to an Inn about twenty Miles short of that City; a London Wholesale Dealer, who had been that Way collecting Debts in, came to the very same Inn; he had not been long there before I got myself into his Company, he seemed very well pleased with my Company, and with the merry Stories which I told him, that he desired I would breakfast with him in the Morning; accordingly I did, and I took Occasion to put a strong Purge into the Ale and Toast which the Londoner was to drink; he desired me to partake of it; I told him I never took any thing in the Morning but a Glass of Wine and Bitters.

When Breakfast was over, he called to the Ostler for his Horse, and I offered to accompany him, and told him I could easily walk as fast as his Horse could trot; he readily told me he should be glad of my Company. We had not gone above two Miles, before at the Entrance of a Common the Physick began to work; the Londoner alighting to untruss a Point, I leaped at once into his Saddle, and galloped off both with his Horse and Portmanteau.

I baited an Hour at a small Village 3 Miles beyond Chester , and avoided passing through that City; then I continued my Journey to Port-Patrick , from whence I crossed to Dublin , with about Threescore Pounds of ready Money, a watch, which was put up in a Corner of a Cloak-bag, Linnen, and other Things to a considerable Value.

After I had spent my Money, I came to London again, and had not been long in Town, before I came acquainted with two Persons, whom I do not care to mention (hoping they will reform and take warning by my unhappy Fate) who persuaded me to go into the Country to see what we could get; accordingly we set out for a Place called Stamford , and attempted to commit several Robberies by the way, but had no Opportunity. After this we went to Baldick , where we broke open a House, but found very little in it besides a watch; we staid but one Night, and the next Day we made the best of our way for London , and we being necessitated for Money, we pawned the watch at an Inn on the Road for 18 s.

When we came to Town we committed some Robberies on the Highway: The first I was concerned in was between Straford and Guilford , but did not get above six or seven Shillings. Another Robbery was on the Barnet Road and on the Kent-Road , but got no Booty of Signification.

After this Robbery I and my Companion committed a Robbery on the Enfield Road , and another soon after on a Gentleman near Vaux-Hall , which was the best Booty we got of the Robberies, for we got a silver watch, a Pair of Silver Buckles, and some Silver; my Companion sold the watch for 30 Shillings in the Country, but he sunk the Money.

This Day is Publish'd, Printed and Sold by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Bolt-Court , Fleet Street .

SELECT TRIALS at the Sessions-House in the Old-Bailey, for Murders, Robberies, Rapes, Sodomy, Coining, Frauds, and other Offences, from the Year 1720 to the present Time; chiefly transcrib'd from Notes taken in Court, with genuine Accounts of the Lives, Behaviour, Confessions and Dying Speeches of the most eminent Convicts. These Trials, &c. are not to be met with in any other Collection. In Two Volumes, Price 14 s.

These Two Volumes contains the TRIALS of Hawkings and Sympson, for robbing the Bristol Mail, with an Account of all their Robberies.

Spiggot, the famous Highwayman, that bore 350 Pound Weight on his Breast.

Butler, Barton, Fox, Hawes, Wright, Colthouse, Drury, Warwick, Yates, Armstrong, Beck, Edwards, and many others, all famous Highwaymen and Street-Robbers.

Arthur Grey , the famous Footman , for Burglary with an Intent to ravish Mrs. Murray.

Dr. Kraafe, Pritchard, Simmonds, Cooke, Ellis, and many others for Rapes, all very entertaining.

Capt. Stanley, for the Murder of his Whore.

Brinsden, Crony, Nichols, Mac Gennis, Lutterell, the famous Nanny Butler, Vaughan, and Cholmly, (two Constables) Foster Snow , & many others for Murder.

Major Oneby, for the Murder of Mr. Gower, with his Life.

Vezey and Hallam, for the Murder of their Wives.

Richard Savage , Esq ; for Murder, with his Life.

Captain Jane, for Murder.

Edward Stafford , Esq ; and many others.

Sally Salisbury , for an Attempt to stab the Hon. J- F-, Esq;

Sir Charles Burton , Bart . for Felony.

Duffus, Gabriel Lawrence , and a great many others, for Sodomy, shewing all the Tricks and Methods used by the Mollies.

'Squire Day, alias Davenport, for a Cheat; and several others for bilking their Lodgings.

Two German Counts, for forging a Bank Note.

Jonathan Wild , for several Felonies, with several Particulars of his Life, never before published.

Mrs. Gregory, for marrying 'Squire Cockeril, under Pretence of being a great Fortune.

The infamous Catherine Hays , who murdered her Husband, and lay with another Man the very same Night.

Mrs. Sherman, for giving Poison to Mr. Chovet.

Vevers, the Bricklayer, on all his Indictments.

Mary Hendron for marrying Miss Morris to an Irishman, against her Consent.

Blind Cowper and Harpham, and others, for Coining.

Russel, for a Misdemeanour, in endeavouring to carry away Mrs. Benson.

William Hales , Esq ; and Parson Kinnersley, r Forgery.

Atkinson for the Murder of his Mother, at Charing-Cross.

With a great Number of diverting TRIALS of Whores, for robbing of those that pick'd them up; and several other remarkable ones for the Highway, Rapes, Murders, Burglaries, &c.

Both Volumes containing upwards of Five hundred Trials; among which are upwards of seventy Trials for Murder, near Sixty of Whores for privately stealing, upwards of one Hundred for the Highway, about Thirty for Rapes; the rest being for Frauds, Forgery, Burglary, Sodomy, Bigamy, Shop-lifting, Riots, Misdemeanors, Receiving Stollen Goods, Single Felonies, &c. &c. &c.

N. B. These Trials are not only very necessary for all Lawyers, Justices of the Peace, Clerks of the Indictments, and other Persons concern'd in Prosecutions, &c. but are very useful and entertaining to the Generality of Readers.

FINIS.

