THE ORDINARY of NEWGATE his ACCOUNT, Of the Behaviour, Confession, and dying Words of the Malefactors, who were Executed on Monday, the 9th of this Instant May, 1726, at Tyburn.

AT the Sessions of the Peace, and Oyer and Terminer, for the City of London; and on the King's Commission of Jail-Delivery of Newgate, held at Justice-Hall in the Old-Bailey , for the City of London, and County of Middlesex; on Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, and Saturday, the 20th, 21st, 22d, and 23d of April, 1726, in the Twelfth Year of his Majesty's Reign; (before the Rt. Hon. Sir Francis Forbes , Knt . Lord Mayor of the City of London ; the Rt. Hon. the Lord Chief Justice Raymond; the Hon. Mr. Baron Price; Sir William Thomson , Knt . Recorder ; and John Raby , Serjeant at Law ; and other his Majesty's Justices of Jail-Delivery, and Oyer and Terminer aforesaid; together with his Majesty's Justices of the Peace for the said City of London) Fifteen Malefactors were convicted of Capital Crimes, and receiv'd Sentence of Death, viz. Thirteen Men, and Two Women. John Murrel was also convicted Capitally, for stealing a brown Mare, val 8 l. but being dangerously ill, his Sentence was respited.

While under Sentence, they were instructed in the Principles of our Holy Christian Religion; in the Original of Right and Property; they were taught the great Evil of the Sin of Murder from several weighty Considerations; and if Murder in general be one of the most heinous Sins, then in proportion the murderer of one's nearer and dearest Relation must be still a greater Sin than common Murder; and not only of one who is most nearly Related, but also who, by the Laws of God and Man, is a superiour Person in Power and Honour; for that the Husband is called the Head of the Wife, her Lord, &c. and therefore the Laws of this Kingdom have wisely declar'd it to be a greater Crime, and affix'd a severer Punishment upon a Wife's murdering her Husband, than upon other Murderers, &c. I likewise insisted upon the Villany and Uncleanness of unnatural Sins, which ought not to be nam'd among People who have any remainders of Civility lest, much less among Christians who profess the true Religion, teaching us to deny all Ungodliness and Worldly Lusts &c especially the Lusts of the Flesh, &c. I show'd 'em the Evil of this Sin from God's visible Judgments inflicted on Sodom and Gomorrah, and the neighbouring Cities, in raining Fire and Brimstone from Heaven upon them, and consuming them as in a Moment, &c, And in the Apostle St Paul, Rom. 1. and St. Jude in his Epistle, inveighing so much against these most impious and notorious Sinners, &c.

In time of delivering these and many other useful Instructions, all of them appeared to be attentive; but no outward Signs of Repentance and Sorrow for Sin, requisite in every sincere Christian, much more in such notable and most impious Offenders, as many, if not all of 'em were; Wood the Murderer was most affected, but he appeared but 2 or 3 Days in Chapel, for falling sick, he died in the Condemn'd Hold a few Days before the Sentence was put in Execution; Billings, who actually murder'd Mr. Hayes, by one stroke of a Hatchet in the hind-part of his Head, was a confus'd, hard-hearted young Fellow, and had few external Signs of Penitence; Mrs. Hayes was too unconcerned, and I fear too often her Mind was taken up with things altogether foreign to the Purpose, and great Work which she had then upon hand; Gillingham, Map, and the rest of 'em were attentive and comply'd with the Worship, excepting one who was a Roman Catholick.

Upon Thursday last the Report was made to his Majesty in Council; John Treen , Mary Scuff ham , and George Keger , receiv'd his Majesty's most Gracious Reprieve; John Vanvick , and Thomas Wood died in Prison; the remaining Ten, viz. Cotterel, Gillingham, Map, Hayes, Billings, Laurence, Griffin, Wright, Vigus, and Dupre, were ordered for Execution.

The Dead-Warrant coming down on Friday the 6th of May, these Ten began to think seriously upon Death; Gillingham, who formerly appear'd very indifferent, came to Chapel, shedding Tears, Mrs. Hayes, who before shew'd little Concern, being assur'd she was to die on Monday, wept bitterly; and the rest appear'd more effected than usual.

Thomas Billings and Thomas Wood , of St. Mary le Bone , were Indicted for the Murder of John Hayes , the former by striking and bruising the said John Hayes on the hinder part of the Head with a Hatchet, on the 1st of March last, of which he instantly died, and the latter for being accessary to the said Murder; to which Indictment they both pleaded Guilty.

THOMAS BILLINGS , (as Mrs. Hayes affirm'd some Days before their Execution) Son to John Hayes and Catharine Hayes , between 19 and 20 Years of Age When he was a Child, he did not live with his Father and Mother, but with some of their Relations in the Country; he was put to School in his younger Years, and taught to read his Mother Tongue, to write, and instructed in the Knowledge of the Christian Religion. I ask'd him if he knew what Parents he was of? he said, he did not, but believ'd himself to be a Bastard, but a near Relation of Mrs. Hayes, but what way he could not tell; that he was put to a Taylor in Worcestershire ; and that there was a Country Shoemaker in that County, now dead, with whom he stay'd when he was young, who always pass'd for his Father, I ask'd what mov'd him to murder Mr. Hayes? he said, that he was cruel and barbarous in beating and abusing his Wife; that he threaten'd to murder himself, and said, some time or other he should kill his Wife; and that he was an avow'd Athiest, frequently Blaspheming in a manner which ought not to be express'd, denying the immortality of the Soul, and alledging that Men and Women were in the same Condition with the Beasts that perish. Upon such foolish Pretences Wood and he conceived a false Notion, that it was no more a Sin to kill him than a Dog, or a Cat. I told him, that if he was such a wicked Man as he represented him to have been, there was so much the less shadow of Reason to murder him suddenly and unexpectedly, since it was more reasonable upon that very Account to suffer him to live, that he might have time to think upon the evil of his Ways, and repent of his crying Sin, God being always

willing to receive into Favour all penitent Sinners, however notorious their Guilt might be. All this he acknowledg'd, adding, that he had never done it, if he had not been sottishly intoxicated with Liquor, so that he knew not what he was doing. He own'd that there was no Cause for so villainous a Murder; and that whatever Punishment was inflicted upon him, was infinitely less than what he deserv'd. He said, that no sooner was the Thing done, but immediately his Conscience was seiz'd with such horrible Guilt, that he would have given the World to have it undone, but that was impossible; and that Mrs. Hayes and he wept and mourn'd most bitterly all that Night. He denied himself to have been upon the first contrivance of the Murder, but that Mrs. Hayes and Wood first consulted about it; and that when it was communicated to him, he agreed to it, and being overcome with Drink, he was so far left of God, as to commit the Murder. Mrs. Hayes deny'd that she ever advis'd Wood or him to make away with him, or that she knew any thing of it till the Fact was done. Wood, who the second Day after Sentence was confin'd to the Hold, and could not come to Chappel, because of a violent Indisposition of which he died, went to Death with it, that Mrs. Hayes press'd upon him for some time to murder Mr. Hayes, but he refus'd; and Billings, when it was propos'd to him, readily comply'd. He also said, that Mrs. Hayes held the Candle whilst he cut off the Head, and advis'd to the cutting his Body in Pieces, in order to carry it off with the greater Conveniency, and was present at the doing of it; but this, as a dying Woman she denied. Wood appear'd to be mightily concern'd and very Penitent. I ask'd Billings, if he knew that Mr. Hayes was his Mother. He said, that she had told him something of it, but that he knew nothing of Mr. Hayes's being his Father. Having formerly upon several Occasions 'em the heinousness of the Sin of Murder, I took opportunity to inform him, that had his Judges known his Relation to the deceas'd, a more painful and ignominious Punishment had been appointed him; and that his Crime was much greater than what the World had been appriz'd of, Parricide, the murdering of a Father, to whom (under God) we owe our all; being in the esteem of all Men thought a much more barbarous and unnatural Act, than the murder of a Stranger, upon whom one had no dependance. This he own'd, but that then he was ignorant of Mr. Hayes's being his Father; and as to the Punishment, he declar'd himself heartily sorry for his Sin; and that he was content to have his Body disjointed, and all his Bones broken Bone by Bone, or to suffer the most painful Death the Wit of Man could invent, since his Punishment was greater than he could bear, &c. Billings said, that from his Infancy he had always liv'd in the Fear of God, that he had studied and practis'd Religion, and of which indeed he wanted not a competent Knowledge for one of his Station; and that, excepting the barbarous Crime of Parricide for which he died, he had never committed any heinous Sin, neither had he been addicted to any of those Vices, either of Whoring, Drinking, Lying, &c. to which too many young Men do incline. He told also, that he had once taken the Sacrament. I told him, that by that one mortal Sin of Parricide he had lost all his former Righteousness. He hop'd the Seed of Grace was left in him. I said, that it appear'd very ill in such hellish Fruits and Effects, however God was able, if he sought him sincerely, to renew him again by Repentance, to which I earnestly exhorted him, his Crime not being a common Murder but Parricide, by his own Confession; for he knew Mrs. Hayes to be his Mother, and consequently Mr. Hayes her Husband to have paternal Relation to him. He declar'd himself most penitent for his Offence, hop'd that God had renew'd him by a true Repentance, and an unfeigned Faith in Christ, and that he car'd not what he suffer'd in this World, so that his Soul might have everlasting Happiness in the World to come. He seem'd to have been a young Fellow of a simple, easy, foolish Temper, and to have been seduced into the Commission of this unheard of Cruelty by the persuasion of Wood, or some way or other, which we shall leave the World to judge upon. He expected Salvation only through the Merits of Jesus Christ, whose Blood speaks better Things than that of Abel; and in all appearance he was very penitent for his Sins, and died in Communion of the Church of England, of which he own'd himself an unworthy Member.

2. Catherine Hayes was indicted for Petty-Treason, in being traiterously present, comforting and maintaining the said Thomas Billings in the Murder of the said John Hayes her Husband.

CATHERINE HAYES , born in Warwickshire , of honest and respected Parents, aged (as she said) about 34 or 36 Years, educated in the Faith of the Church of England; but what good Instructions she received in her younger Years were mostly forgotten; for she married Mr. John Hayes , Son to a Countryman in Worcestershire , within four Miles of the City of that Name; who had an Estate in Land of forty or fifty Pounds per Annum, as she said, when twelve or thirteen Years old, but as some of her Friends said fifteen or sixteen, upon eight Days acquaintance; for travelling by Mr. Hayes's Father's House, and asking the Way, old Mrs. Hayes desired her to come in, and young Mr. Hayes fell deeply in Love with her, and married her suddenly without Consent of Friends, she having left her Mother's House upon some Discontent; and as she affirm'd, Mr. Hayes her Husband was so intent upon the World, that he would not suffer her to apply to reading of her Book, or religious Exercises; such as Praying, &c. and that all the time of her Marriage, which was twenty Years and eight Months, he would never suffer her to go to Church but two or three times, namely, twice at London with Billings the Murderer her Son, whose true Name upon the Words of a dying Woman, she assur'd me to be Hayes; and that when she went to Church, it was without her Husband's Knowledge, and contrary to his Consent. They liv'd in Worcestershire upon a Piece of Land of their own, and some which they farm'd ; but she complain'd that Mr. Hayes was a very unkind Husband, beating and mortifying her upon every trivial Occasion in a cruel Manner; and that when she was with Child, he would never suffer a Midwife to be call'd but once, which with his other ill Usuages prov'd the Cause of Abortion, and commonly put her in hazard of her Life. Five or six Years ago, upon Discontents and Grudges arising in the Family between Mr. Hayes's Father and Mother and her, and her Husband and her, they sold all off they had in the Country, and came to Town, where they kept a Chandler's Shop , and liv'd in different Places, till lately they took an House in the Parish of St. Mary le bon , where this unfortunate Accident of her Husband's Murder happen'd. When I first visited her, asking the Cause, why they murder'd Mr. Hayes in such a barbarous Manner? She told me, that Thomas Wood , one of the Murderers, alledg'd, it was no more Sin to kill him than a Dog or Cat, because of the cruel Usuage he gave her, and his blasphemous Expressions which he too frequently us'd, declaring that he believ'd nothing about a God, and that the Souls of Men and Women died like the Brutes, &c. Wood, when I told him this, cast the whole Blame upon her; saying that twenty Days before the Murder happen'd, Mrs. Hayes advis'd and frequently press'd him to murder her Husband, upon doing of which he should be Master of all her Money, which was of a considerable Value; that he would not consent to do it; but that afterwards she proposing to her Son Billings, he too easily agreed to it. Wood held to this Confession till his Death; for two or three Days before he died, as I visited him lying sick in the Hold, he affirm'd the same; adding that she advis'd to the cutting off his Head, Legs, and Arms; and that she held the Candle while it was a doing, &c. All this Mrs. Hayes constantly deny'd, and by all the Arguments I and several who spoke to her could make use of, either from Scripture, as that by confessing her Sins she glorify'd God, &c. or the Reason of the Thing itself, since the grievous Sin, tho' principally committed against God, yet thereby a terrible Offence and Injury was also given to Man; and that without an ingenious Confession, she could not die in the Peace of the Church, &c. By these and many other Reasons she could not be in the least mov'd to make any farther Confession; only, that three Days before the unlucky Time to her, and the other two, Thomas

Wood sitting beside Mr. Hayes in the House, and holding his Hand over Mr. Hayes's Shoulder, said, Mr. Hayes, I think it no more Sin to kill you than a Dog or Cat. Why? says Hayes. Wood answer'd, Because you are so cruel to that poor industrious Woman, and because you are so atheistical and wicked. Mr. Hayes said, that as to his striking his Wife, he had a Giddiness in his Head at some times, that he knew not what he was doing: and that he believ'd some time or other he should kill his Wife in his Passion, which he could not help. Notwithstanding this, Billings said, that his Mother and Wood first plotted the Murder, altho' when she was present, he stood in awe, and would say nothing of her. What past betwixt Wood and Mr. Hayes is all she would confess, that she knew of any fore-thought or design of murdering Mr. Hayes her Husband. I told her, suppose she knew nothing of a premeditated Intention, yet her concealing the Murder, and abetting the Murderers, &c. made her equally guilty of the Crime in the Eye of the Law; that she acknowledg'd, and said, she desired not to live, but thought she should not be Burnt, &c. I told her, that Burning was the particular Punishment appointed by the Law of England, for Women who were concern'd in the Murder of their Husbands. She wept aud fretted when she thought on this. Asking her, why she conceal'd her Husband's Murder? she said, that the ill Usuage he always gave her cool'd her Affection towards him, and her only Son being concern'd, she could not think of delivering him up to public Justice. She spoke much of Mr. Hayes's beating and mortifying her, and sometimes breaking her Ribs and Bones, and of his having murder'd two new-born Children of her's, and burying them, one under an Apple-Tree, another under a Pear-Tree, at two different Places, where they liv'd in Worcestershire ; a Note of which a Neighbour of her's in that Country, who lives near to these Places took, and was to dig about the Trees, to see if he could find any of the Bones, &c. and was to write an Account of it to Town, if any such thing could be found. Being ask'd the Reason, why she malign'd and spoke so much to her Husband's Disadvantage, now that he was dead, and murder'd in so barbarous a Manner? She said, that she had no Malice in her Heart to him, but that her being so ill treated by him, was the Cause why she conceal'd the Murder, and was so indifferent about it; and that she could not die in Peace, till she open'd her Mind to me or some Body about the two Children; otherwise, that she entertain'd no grudge against any Person. She seem'd to be a Woman of good natural Parts, but grosly ignorant in religious Matters, which (it may be fear'd) was the cause of her compliance in any degree with such a horrid Action. I was always very pressing upon her to consider her latter end, and to improve the Knowledge of God, and the Salvation which is to be obtain'd, only in and through Jesus Christ, &c. She frequently affirm'd, that she had no doubt of her being happy in another World, and the Reason she gave for this assertion was, because she had been just and upright in her Dealings, charitable to the Poor, careful in Houshold Affairs, faithful and dutiful to her Husband, &c. As to conjugal Duties, I told her, that although she did not actually imbrue her Hands in her Husband's Blood, yet by potronizing and supporting such execrable Murderers, she declar'd herself a very ill Woman, and deserving the Punishment appointed her. At which she sigh'd and groan'd, confessing herself faulty in part; for which she beg'd God and the World Pardon, and declar'd that she heartily repented for the Murder, so far as she was concern'd in it. I inform'd her also, that if she relied upon any good Work of her own for Salvation, she would fail of attaining the end of her Faith, &c. so I advis'd her only to depend upon the Merits and Intercession of Jesus Christ, &c. She said, that she believed in Jesus Christ her only Saviour, upon whose account alone she expected eternal Life and Salvation. By frequent Instructions both before and after her Tryals I brought her to understand some of the first Elements of Christianity; but was greatly troubled to see her much less concern'd than what I desired; for when I spoke to her about the great Concerns of her Soul, she was too ready to bring in some little Story nothing to the purpose: for which, when I reprov'd her, she acknowledg'd her Error. She declar'd herself of the Communion of this Church, of which she was an unworthy Member. When in Chappel I preach'd, or pray'd, or discours'd about Murder, she commonly fainted away, which she acknowledg'd to proceed from the Thoughts and Apprehensions of her Husband's horrible Murder, which still harass'd and stistracted her Mind Night and Day, ever since it happen'd. She hop'd to be sav'd only by the Merits of Christ Jesus, and declar'd that she died in Peace with all Mankind.

3. Henry Vigous alias Shock , was indicted for assaulting Edward Walmesly in an open Place near the Highway, putting him in Fear, and taking from him a silver Watch val. 5 l. a Hat val 2 s. and 7 s. 6 d. in Money, on the 26th of March, about 4 in the Afternoon.

HENRY VIGOUS , alias SHOCK , aged 34 Years, descended of honest, but mean Parents, in the Country, not far from London , had no Education, could not Read, was grosly ignorant, and it was a hard matter to make him understand any thing of Religion. He was Servant to a Brewer in Town, and had the Character of being Industrious and Honest; he lamented much his wicked Life, particularly upon the account of his Wife, reputed an honest Woman, and 2 or 3 young Children, whom he had disgrac'd and ruin'd to his Power. He confess'd the Justice of his Sentence for robbing Mr. Walesly, having committed innumerable Robberies on the Highway, near the Town; that lewd Women with whom he kept Company, were the occasion of neglecting his Business, and betaking himself to such a wicked Life; that he had been a very great Sinner, and had obtain'd the just Reward of his Deeds. N. B. He declared also before Mr. Moleson, a Vintner in Coleman-street, and several others present, that he was the Person who robb'd Elizabeth , the Wife of Robert Storth , of 6 Guineas, as she was coming along the Road from Shacklewell , upon the 30th of December last notwithstanding the said Elizabeth swore the said Robbery upon a Boy named John Brattle , living in that Neighbourhood, who after he had narrowly escaped being cast for his Life, was acquitted; and therefore no Man can in justice after this judge the said John Brattle to have committed the said Robbery upon Elizabeth Storth . Vigous also own'd that it was he who robb'd Mrs. Tull, at the Haltway House between Kingsland and Huckstone . He declar'd himself of the Communion of this Church, that he expected Salvation only in and thro' Christ, and that he died in Peace with all the World.

4. James Dupree was indicted for breaking and entering the House of John Custom , and stealing 27 Yards of Caffoy, value 16 l. the Goods of John Burgess , April the 18th, in the Night.

JAMES DUPREE , aged thirty Years, a Silk-Weaver in Spittle-Fields ; of mean Parents, no Education for Letters, and very ignorant in the Principles of Christianity. He said, that he had always been sober in the preceeding Course of his Life; had never committed Theft or Robberies; and that he was in good Reputation in the Neighbourhood. He much lamented his having brought his Wife, and three poor young Children to Misery and Disgrace, by that wicked Action. He wept bitterly for his Sins, declar'd himself a true Penitent, confess'd the Justice of his Sentence, although he thought it hard, being the first Fault, and was always very Grave and Devout in Chappel, both in time of Prayers and Exhortations. He declar'd himself a Protestant of the Communion of the Church of England, hoping for Salvation only through Christ Jesus, and that he died in Peace with all the World.

5. John Cotterel was indicted for breaking and entering the House of Bennet Ward , Widdow , and stealing a Tub, two Pounds of Butter, and one Pound of Pepper, March 28.

JOHN COTTEREL , born (as he said) in Cheshire , of honest Parents, Aged 52 Years, or some more, Educated to the Sea, had been Master of a Ship about 200 Tuns, but sustaining great Losses, particularly by his eldest Son, who was Master of a Ship that traded between Holland and England, and France, upon his own Account: he lost the Ship, which with several other Losses brought him very low, so that he was imprison'd in Newgate above 2 Years and a half, till his Majesty's late Act of Indemnity for Insolvent Debtors set him at Liberty; and then being miserable poor, and at that time in Drink, he broke into that little Chandlers-shop, where he us'd to go and buy drams of Gin, in the further End of Ratcliff Highway , where 2 Men passing by, they went in and took him, and swore against him; he acknowledged the Crime of breaking into the House, but said that he had taken nothing away, and thought it hard to die since nothing was lost, it having been the first Crime he was ever guilty of; and having been always before, till of late, a Man of good Business, and a very honest Reputation. He own'd the Justice of the Sentence, forgave the Evidences who swore away his Life, was very penitent for all his Sins, in evidence whereof he frequently wept and shed Tears; declar'd himself of the Communion of this Church, of which he dy'd an unworthy Member; that he hop'd for Salvation only thro' Christ, and died in Peace with all the World.

6. John Gillingham was indicted for assaulting on the Highway Robert Shirly , Esq ; and taking from him a Gold Watch and Chain,

value 20 l. February 27. He was a second time indicted for assaulting John De Comines on the Highway, and taking from him a Watch, a Snuff Box, and 5 l. 5 s. in Money, on the 8th of April. He was a third time indicted, for that he with John Mason , since dead in Newgate ) did send to Simon Smith , Esq ; a felonious Letter, not sign'd with his Name, demanding 20 Guineas; the Contents of the said Letter are as follows,

To Mr. Smith, in Great George-street , over-against the Church, near Mr. Smith, Hanover-Square .

I Desire you to send me 20 Guineas by the Bearer, without letting him know what it is, for he is innocent of the Contents. If you offer to speak of this to any Body, G - D - my Blood and Soul if you are not a dead Man before Monday Morning; and if you don't send the Money, the Devil dash my Brains out if I don't shoot you the first time you stir out of Doors; or if I should be taken, there's others that will do your Business for you, by the first Opportunity: Therefore pray fail not, for G - strike me to instant D - n, if I am not as good as my Word

JOHN GILLINGHAM , aged 22 Years of honest Parents in the Parish of St. James in the Liberties of Westminster , who had given him good Education at Westminster-School , which he did not improve to any good Purposes, but took himself to loose and bad Company, which prov'd his Ruin: He had tollerable good Sense, but was too self-conceited; he entertain'd great hopes of a Reprieve, which made him too unconcern'd about the state of his Soul. When he saw himself included in the Dead-Warrant he soften'd a little, but (as I was inform'd) the two Nights before his Death, he committed some Extravagancies in abusing or beating some of his Fellow Prisoners in the Hold, which was an evidence that he had not true Repentance at that time. He deny'd the Robbery upon Mr. Shirley, and said that he did not believe that John du Cumins the Footman lost any thing at all: He confess'd that he knew of the Letter sent to Mr. Smith, but that he neither writ it, nor sent it: He said that he never committed a Robbery but one, and that he was one of them who assaulted and endeavour'd to rob the Earl of Harborough, in his Chair near St. James's Church , and that it was he who shot the Earl 8 Chairman through the Shoulder. He acknowledged himself a great Sinner, and that his Sentence was just, but he complain'd that he dy'd meerly upon a Letter, where nothing was lost; he was very obstinate, but before Death he declar'd himself penitent for all his Sins, own'd that he believ'd all the Articles of the Christian Faith, and that Salvation was only attainable thro' Faith in Christ; that he begg'd God and the World pardon for all the Offences he had committed; that he died in the Communion of this Church, of which he was an unworthy Member, and freely forgave all Mankind who had injur'd him, as he expected forgiveness at the Hands of God.

7. JOHN MAP , was indicted for assaulting William Benfield on the Highway, and taking from him 8 pair of Hinges, &c. and 16 s Feb. 8. This Map was a young audacious Fellow, 23 Years of Age, of honest Parents, and good Relations in the Country, educated to the Sea, having serv'd as Midshipman on board a Man of Wat; but he own'd that what he could gain by his Business could not be sufficient for making him follow his extravagant Courses when at Home, wherefore he betook himself to robbing on the Highway, in which Trade he made such Proficiency, that since Christmas last, before he was committed, he several times said to me, that he had committed above 200 Robberies. He acknowledg'd the Justice of his Sentence, but alledg'd that he only got the 16 s. but knew nothing of the Hinges, which the Evidence also swore to: He confess'd himself to have been a very great Sinner, and that God in Justice had afflicted him.

8. Gabriel Laurence , was indicted for feloniously committing with Thomas Newton , aged 30 Years, the heinous and detestable Sin of Sodomy.

GABRIEL LAURENCE , aged 43 Years, was a Papist , and did not make many particular Confessions to me: He kept the Chapel with the rest, for the most part, was always very Grave, made frequent Responces with the rest, and said the Lord's Prayer and the Creed after me. He own'd himself of the Romish Communion, but said he had a great liking to the Church of England, and could communicate with them, but this I would not allow unless he renounc'd rrors. He said that Newton had perjur'd himself, and that in all he had never been guilty of that detestable Sin, but that he liv'd many Years with a Wife, who had born several Children, kept a good sober House; and this he desir'd me to Publish.

9. William Griffin , was indicted for committing Sodomy with Thomas Newton .

WILLIAM GRIFFIN , aged 43 Years, an Upholsterer by Trade in Southwark , had (as he said) been a Man of good Business, but having squander'd away or lost his Money, was fallen into Poverty. He denied the Fact for which he died, calling Newton the Evidence perjur'd, and saying that that abominable Sin was always the aversion of his Soul; for he had liv'd many Years with a good virtuous Wife, who had several Children, two of which, a Boy and a Girl, are living, and (as he said) both of them behave mighty well, and to the Satisfaction of all concern'd with 'em, and he hop'd that the World would not be so unjust as to upbraid his poor Children with his unfortunate Death.

10. Thomas Wright was indicted for committing Buggery with Thomas Newton .

THOMAS WRIGHT , born at Newbury , aged 32 Years, was instructed in his younger Years in the Principles of Christianity, and inclin'd to the Anabaptist-Way. He said also, that Newton swore falsely against him; but could not deny his following these abominable Courses, only he refus'd to make particular Confessions. Although he had been used to go to seperate Meetings, yet, he said, that he lov'd and esteem'd the Church of England, and was willing to communicate with the Church as soon as with Dissenters; that he always liv'd sobely, following his Employment, which was that of Wooll-Combing ; that he died in the Christian Faith, a Protestant, believing to be sav'd only through the Merits of Jesus Christ.

At the Place of Execution, Map got himself loose, threw himself out of the Halter, and jump'd 3 or 4 Yards from the Cart, upon the Heads of the numerous Crowd of People, but the Officers following after him, wounded him with their Pikes, and the Executioner and some others soon brought him back again; Vigous got himself free of the Halter also, which was immediately observ'd: Gillingham was the more desirous of Prayers, having the Night before taken Poyson, and conscious of his Guilt. Wright could not deny his Guilt, but reflected on Newton the Evidence as perjur'd in some Particulars, Griffin would not own the commission of the detestable Sin, but said he had been guilty of Self-Pollutions, Laurence said, that a certain Person had injur'd him, when he took him before the Justice of Peace who committed him, in swearing or affirming that 15 Years ago he had been taken up for that unnatural Sin, and that it cost him l to get himself free, which he said was utterly false, for till this time he was never suspected: Mrs. Hayes was burnt alive; she appear'd altogether unconcern'd, and own'd Billings for her Child, adding nothing to her former Confessions.

This is the Account given by me, J. Guthrie, Minister at Newgate.

ADVERTISEMENTS.

To be Sold,

A House of Goods in Greek street, near Sohoe Square, at the Iron-Rails: consisting of Peer and Chimney Glasses, a Mohair Bed, and Damask Bed, Walnuttree matted Chairs, and Spanish Leather Chairs, with other useful Furniture. The lowest Price fix'd on each Particular, and continue till all is sold.

Now publish'd, Price Six-Pence,

THE Life of Catherine Hayes . Giving a true and perfect Account of her Parantage, Birth, Education, Behaviour, and Conversation, from the time of her Birth to the Hour of her Death; the pretended Reasons and Motives that induc'd her, with Thomas Wood and Thomas Billings to murder her Husband; and the several Parts each other acted therein. Together with every minute Circumstance relating to that horrid Affair. The Particulars of the Discovery; their several Apprehensions, Commitments, and Confessions; their Tryals and Behaviour in Newgate, before and after Sentence, and at the Place of Execution: With the Manner thereof. To which is added, The Lives of Thomas Wood and Thomas Billings . The whole taken from the Mouths of the several Criminals themselves, and confirm'd by their Friends and Relations, and by the Kindred of the deceas'd Mr. Hayes; and the most authentick Accounts of the whole Matter taken upon Oath before the Coroner, and divers of his Majesty's Justices of the Peace, &c. Printed and sold by John Applebee in Black-Fryers , E. Nut at the Royal Exchange, and A. Dod at the Peacock without Temple-Bar, 1726.

London ; Printed by JOHN APPLEBEE , in Black-Fryers .

